0: There are four methods commonly used for producing desi ghee: direct cream method, pre-stratification, cream butter method and milk butter/desi method.
1: Desi method or milk butter method[ 1] have been adopted for the preparation of desi ghee (a local name of the clarified butter in Pakistan and India) which was extracted from the butter obtained from the buffalo milk by adding yogurt culture.
2: By adopting desi method, fresh buffalo milk samples were obtained at the time of lactation from the local dairy farm situated in country side of Mian Channu (Punjab, Pakistan).
3: These milk samples were boiled and cooled to the room temperature.
4: Yogurt culture was added and left the milk to incubate from 08 to 12 hours at room temperature.
5: After incubation time milk changed in to  Dahi (curdled whole milk).
6: Some water was added in  Dahi and after churning it, desi butter with butter milk was produced in a clean metal vessel[ 1, 2].
7: Obtained desi butter was heated slowly at low temperature in an open pan under continuous stirring to allow evaporation of the water without charring the proteins.
8: At a temperature of around 110C, desi ghee with a very pleasant fragrance and light greenish hue got fully separated from the rest of the ingredients of the butter and it took around 15 minutes.
9: The temperature used for separation of desi ghee from cream or butter is reported from 105 to 120C[ 1, 2].
10: There are several traditional methods to extract desi ghee in different parts of the world.
11: In Egypt, 2% salt is added in the butter while heating under continuous stirring and a handful of maize or other cereal flour is added in ghee made in Ethiopia[ 2].
12: Similarly, in our study, 1% of wheat flour was added in the melted butter at about 100C in order to separate ghee from residue solids present in butter material.
13: It is an ancient practice in subcontinent to add flour in heated butter which helps caramelise nonfat butter solids.
14: The quantity of flour added was very small which does not have any effect on the molecular composition of desi ghee due to increased difference in density between fat and non-fat phases.
15: The ghee was filtered and stored at low temperature for further analysis.
16: Temperature variations were monitored by a K type thermocouple which measure temperature with an uncertainty of 2C.
