0: In order to improve the development of plants according to the high temperature and long daylight, the sowings were performed between mid and late March 2019, with a prevision to reach a scalar blooming stage, ready for harvesting, in late August-September.
1: The cultivar EC is a dioecious Italian selection deriving from original crops of the early 1900s, largely cultivated in the south of Italy for fiber production.
2: It is in the European community list of varieties admitted for cultivation and its agronomic needs fit with the Mediterranean environment.
3: It is considered as a late flowering cultivar that produces high amount of biomass, due to the large leaf surface and compact smelling inflorescences, endowed with a rich presence of terpenes.
4: The cultivar name refers to the Campania region and the selected cultivar is largely cultivated throughout central and South Italy.
5: Similarly, CS is a dioecious cultivar originally selected for the production of fiber.
6: The mature plants can grow over 6 m but are also adapted for seeds and flowers production.
7: Futura 75 is a French selection of monoecious variety for seeds and biomass production, characterized by high adaptability for multi-purpose cultivation.
8: Previous experiences of cultivation confirmed the suitability of this cultivar for local environmental conditions, also in central Italy [ 9].
9: All selected seeds are present in the plant variety database of the European Commission in the agricultural species list.
10: The genus  Cannabis and specifically the selected cultivars are characterized by high adaptability and, based on previous experiences, no specific agronomical practices were planned but just a superficial soil preparation (ploughing, disc harrowing and milling), automated sowing for optimized seed density, no fertilization and only three programmed automated irrigation cycles.
11: During the phase of flowering, an accurate manual collection of only mature flowers was done.
12: The collection was repeated daily to obtain only high-quality mature flowers.
13: Fresh plant material was immediately transferred to the laboratory and extracted within 6 h. Random samples from collections were selected and botanical identity was confirmed by classical taxonomical approach (done by Prof. L. Menghini, Full Professor in Pharmaceutical Botany at the Department of Pharmacy, G. dAnnunzio University, Chieti, Italy).
14: Fresh flowers were distributed to obtain a homogeneous dispersion in the distillation chamber in a stainless-steel distillatory Clevenger-type apparatus (Albrigi Luigi S.r.l., Stallavena, Italy).
15: The volumetric EO yields (%,  v/ w) were determined and expressed for phytochemical (mL in plant fresh weight) or agronomical (mL from hectare) interpretations.
16: Samples of EOs to be used for analytical characterization and biological tests were dehydrated through a passage in anhydrous sodium sulfate and stored in a dark glass bottles with polyethylene terephthalate (PTFE) septa cap at 4 C until used.
