0: Last few decades, the nanoencapsulation of bioactive materials, drugs, and antibiotics using natural biopolymer is attracted significant interest ( Cui et al., 2018).
1: Because, natural biopolymers increased all the compound materials after encapsulation including biodegradability, biocompatibility, enhanced stability, gradual drug release capacity, increased stability, highest antimicrobial efficacy and low toxicity.
2: Among the different biopolymers, chitosan is an excellent biopolymer which is used as an encapsulation process, it owing to its biodegradability, biocompatibility and toxicity level  Hadidi et al., 2020.
3: It also delivered as a variety forms like beads, fibers, films and membranes.
4: In addition, the most rich polysaccharide content of highest biodegradable ability containing biopolymer is chitosan ( Hasheminej et al., 2019).
5: It is a very well-known biopolymer with increased properties of biodegradable, biocompatible and biomedical.
6: It is an excellent natural polymer that synthesized from chitin through cationic process.
7: It is an important biopolymer driven by alkaline deacetylation process, which is used in the entire field including agriculture, food, environmental, pharmaceutical, biomedical and clinical ( Badawy et al., 2020).
8: Chitosan is a second most biopolymer available in naturally with high content.
9: The marine crustaceans are the important source to synthesize the natural chitosan ( Zhang et al., 2020).
10: Naturally, biopolymers of chitosan have high biodegradability, biocompatibility, antimicrobial activity, anti-biofilm activity, film forming ability with decreased toxicity level ( Maruthupandy et al., 2019).
11: Previously, more researchers are reported chitosan as carrier a molecule, which is used and increase the drug nature.
12: The increased natures of the drugs are working 80% against various infections after successful delivery of chitosan.
13: Also, chitosan is a functionalized biopolymer, highly used in all the applications including food for packaging, biomedical for anti-bacterial and anti-biofilm activity.
14: In clinical, it is acted as successful carrier molecules for various drugs ( Jiang et al., 2020).
15: Particularly, chitosan is used as a important biological material in food packaging and biomedical applications due to the decreased toxicity nature.
16: Sometimes, chitosan is used to improve the drug nature for improving the anti-microbial and anti-biofilm and anti-oxidant nature that it could expand its applications in food active packaging.
