0: Mycorrhizal type, through impact on soil microbial community, alter the interspecific competition and facilitation effects of co-existing plants.
1: Mycorrhizal type that improves plant coexistence is usually linked to the complementary use of soil nutrient resources ( Turner, 2008;  Luo et al., 2018), such as nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P).
2: Mycorrhizal type of dominant tree species is a potential predictor of the biochemical process of soil nutrient dynamics by which selecting for specific microbial groups with distinct enzyme functions ( Cheeke et al., 2017).
3: This will induce a negative PSF on plant growth and provide the dominant plants a competitive advantage over neighboring or subsequent plants.
4: When limited to the same resources, the functional diversity of mycorrhizal types could relieve competitive pressure and enhance plant growth and survival.
5: A recent study has showed that partitioning of soil P among different mycorrhizal trees contributed to species coexistence in subtropical natural forests ( Liu et al., 2018).
6: In addition, a growing body of literature indicates that the composition of aboveground plant communities can culture the belowground microbial community toward certain functional groups, such as species-specific pathogens ( Wardle et al., 2004;  Bever et al., 2010;  Yang et al., 2020).
7: Plant functional traits have also been suggested to affect adaptation to the local soil chemistry or soil microbial community ( Revillini et al., 2016).
8: For example, ectomycorrhizal (EM) plants may represent more positive PSFs than arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) plants because EM plants have greater access to transfer N  via the ectomycorrhizal networks ( Simard et al., 2012;  Tedersoo et al., 2020) or greater protection from antagonists through the physical sheath that surrounds young feeder roots ( Bennett et al., 2017).
9: The bacteria community in the mycorrhizosphere also has significant impact on spore germination or colonization of mycorrhizal fungi ( Xavier and Germida, 2003).
10: Thus, the soil microbial community cultured by different mycorrhizal type of focal plants may lead to species-specific feedbacks, resulting in species coexistence or exclusion with subsequent plants.
