0: Recent evidence has suggested that the mycorrhizal type of host plants can determine the strength and direction of the plant-soil feedback in Mediterranean shrublands and temperate forests ( Bennett et al., 2017;  Teste et al., 2017).
1: However, the relative benefit of different mycorrhizal types can be context-dependent.
2: Eucalyptus plants are capable of associating with both AM fungi and EM fungi ( Chen et al., 2000;  Teste et al., 2019), yet are powerful model plant systems to better understand the role of mycorrhizal symbioses in forest restoration and degraded plantation reconstruction.
3: In the case studies of natural forests, the dominant mycorrhizal type has substantial impacts on subsequent or neighboring plants, by selecting for microbial groups with different nutrient cycling processes and protection from antagonists ( Cheeke et al., 2017;  Jo et al., 2017).
4: Little is known about the contrasting effects of distinct mycorrhizal type on species coexistence in an afforestation system.
5: Here, we test the importance of mycorrhizal type in plant-soil feedback and its influence on species coexistence in mixed  Eucalyptus plantations.
6: We hypothesized that the compatibility of different mycorrhizal types, through effects on the adaptation to soil microbial community, would account for interspecific competition exclusion or coexistence.
7: For this, we first conducted a 10-year field survey in a mixed  Eucalyptus plantation to estimate the effects of mycorrhizal type on the survival and growth of 20 woody species.
8: We then conducted pot experiments to determine how mycorrhizal type determines PSF, by inoculating different types of mycorrhizal tree species with their conspecific or heterospecific soil microbes.
9: Furthermore, we tested the contrasting effects of different compositions of soil microbes induced by  Eucalyptus plants on AM and EM plants.
10: We hypothesized that, (i) mycorrhizal type of tree species significantly influences their survival and growth in  Eucalyptus plantations, (ii) plant-soil microbial feedback mediates the species coexistence between  Eucalyptus and other mycorrhizal tree species, and the feedback strength depends on mycorrhizal type, and (iii)  Eucalyptus is more likely to coexist with plants of more different mycorrhizal type.
