0: The holometabolous insect,  Musca domestica also called house fly plays its part as a vector of many fatal diseases.
1: It has become a worldwide problem for transmission of pathogens such as protozoan cysts, helminth parasites, enteropathogenic bacteria, Turkey coronavirus, enterovirus as well as avian flu [ 1].
2: It causes heavy damage to livestock, poultry and humans.
3: It has been very instrumental for the epidemics of dysentery, diphtheria, typhoid, leprosy in humans, whereas fowl cholera and anthrax diseases of poultry and livestock [ 2].
4: The frequent movement of flies between animals and rotten food makes them ideal porters for disease causing pathogens.
5: Therefore, the population control of this pest below threshold levels becomes immensely important from the public health viewpoint and has attracted attention of the scientific community worldwide.
6: During the last century chemical control was the only potential option for managing this insect, but in the present era of advanced technologies many prospective alternatives, such as cultural tactics and biological agents, are routinely used for controlling this pest.
7: Moreover, house flies are reported to show resistance to chemical agents such as organochlorines, organophosphates, pyrethroids, etc.
8: [ 3].
9: Furthermore, synthetic pesticides are also well-known to harm non-target organisms, cause bioaccumulation in trophic levels, ecological imbalances and environmental pollution.
10: Thus, there is a dire need to prospect for new, promising and sustainable biological agents that could be potential tools for managing the housefly populations below threshold levels.
11: Prospectively, there are renewed efforts to develop plant-based formulations which could be considered as highly effective, eco-friendly, cheap, biodegradable and safe for humankind as well as the environment.
12: According to Isman, favorable eco-toxicological properties of botanical pesticides make them potentially suitable for use in integrated pest management (IPM) programs [ 4].
13: Consequently, essential oils (EO) extracted from plants are reviewed as potential plant-based organic-agents due to their inherent valuable properties.
