0: Research over the past years has shown that appropriate nutrition is a very important factor for ensuring the good immune status and enhancing the resistance to infections [ 1].
1: However, it is not always possible to achieve good nutritional status via the diet alone.
2: In the modern diet, even in industrialized nations, the amount of food has increased, but the quality has decreased due to processing, and it adversely affects an individuals micronutrient status.
3: The increased consumption of ultra-processed foods requires exploration of natural ingredients to include in the diet.
4: Therefore, there is a great deal of interest in research on specific nutrition interventions that could enhance immune function in sub-clinical situations and so prevent the onset of infections [ 2].
5: The problem of antimicrobial resistance must also be addressed by looking for biologically active substances that can become alternative to antibiotics.
6: Some biologically active substances act on pathogenic bacteria while the others are known as modulators of immune system.
7: Various biologically active substances are already known as modulators of immune system.
8: Such compounds include polyphenols [ 3], micronutrients, and vitamins [ 4].
9: Different ingredients of functional foods have been investigated previously.
10: Those include functional enzymes, probiotics, prebiotics, fibres, phytosterols, peptides, isoflavones, saponins, and others.
11: Most of experiments have been performed in vitro; however, the data might be different in live organisms, as multiple factors may influence the activity of these substances.
12: This is especially important when selecting a few or multiple ingredients in a single formulation.
13: Recently, we have investigated some functional products for the active nutraceutical formula which could benefit both humans and animals.
14: Some constituents including bovine colostrum, probiotics and particularly essential oils (EOs), demonstrated good results in vitro [ 5, 6, 7, 8].
15: Essential oils are complex mixtures of volatile compounds isolated from a whole plant or plant part of known taxonomic origin [ 9].
16: EOs are generally considered natural and less toxic compounds in comparing with other natural products such as antibiotics [ 10].
17: EOs act against wide spectrum of pathogenic bacteria at relatively small concentrations and can be used in combination with other active ingredients, such as bovine colostrum or lactic acid bacteria, in an appropriate technological formula [ 5].
18: Moreover, EOs have anti-inflammatory potential and immunomodulatory effect [ 11, 12].
