0: Up to date, multiple experiments have been performed on EOs action on bacteria in vitro, although there is a lack of knowledge on how EOs influence microbial communities in vivo under natural conditions.
1: Recent advances in Next Generation Sequencing allow us to explore microbial communities very efficiently, compared with investigations based on classical microbiological methods.
2: As there is still a lack of information how do EOs acts on the human metabolism and microbial composition, many studies have been performed using animals and particularly pigs as experimental model.
3: The pig model is one of the best preclinical animal models for investigating the gastrointestinal system and its functions in humans and it is widely used for in vivo experiments searching for healthier foods [ 20, 21].
4: The possibility to feed animals with supplementation of EOs is also promising from few perspectives including economic reasons and reducing of antimicrobial usage.
5: There are data that the cinnamaldehyde and thymol (250 mg/kg) can significantly improve digestibility of dry matter, crude protein, and energy in piglets [ 22, 23].
6: The apparent ileal digestibility of crude protein and most amino acids were improved by the cocktail of EOs (300 mg/kg) with menthol as the primary component [ 24].
7: The mechanism of action of EOs is not very clear, but according to some studies, the improved digestibility can be attributed to the enhanced secretion of bile and enzymes [ 25] and to the decreased endogenous losses of nutrients [ 24].
8: EOs can also modify intestinal microbial composition in weaned piglets and therefore can enrich biosynthesis of proteins and to activate metabolism of lipids [ 26].
9: EOs have also been shown to regulate intestinal contraction, and thereby to influence the transit of digesta and the resultant interaction between feed and the endogenous enzymes.
10: In pigs the active substances of EOs were found to be absorbed nearly completely in the stomach and the proximal small intestine within 2 h after oral administration [ 27].
11: This means that the absorption of EOs in the foregut protects the possibility of active substances to reach large intestines and directly act on the microbial communities.
12: It is known that microbial changes in the large intestines appear after supplementing of feed by unprotected EOs [ 26].
13: This means that there are other pathways to active substances of EOs interacts with gut microbial communities.
14: However, for the different drug relaxation in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) different types of pharmaceutical coatings are used.
15: The liquid/solid coating technique is capable addition toward such an aim for solubility enhancement and dissolution improvement, thereby increasing the bioavailability.
16: It contains liquid medications in powdered form.
17: This technique is an efficient method for formulating water insoluble and water soluble drugs [ 28].
