0: Oregano ( Origanum vulgare) is a worldwide herb that is extensively used due to its medicinal activities against respiratory, digestive, and urinary disorders in addition to dental caries and rheumatoid arthritis [ 35].
1: This plant also has strong antioxidative properties [ 36].
2: The aforementioned pharmacological properties of  Origanum vulgare are attributed to its high content in carvacrol and other phenolic compounds [ 37].
3: Peppermint ( Mentha piperita) is another widespread plant recognized for their special qualities such as anti-bacterial, stimulative, diaphoretic, stomachic, and anti-spasmodic.
4: It reliefs against cold, flu, fever, anorexia, nausea, motion sickness, food poisoning, esophagus and sinus illnesses [ 38, 39, 40].
5: Thyme ( Thymus vulgaris), which belongs to the Lamiaceae family, is rich source of phytochemicals and bioactive compounds.
6: [ 41].
7: Thyme EO also inhibits growth of pathogenic bacteria and is known as an anti-fungal agent [ 42].
8: Among this, thymus possesses antispasmodic, diaphoretic, antiseptic, disinfectant, carminative, sedative, and expectorant properties that are due to thymol and carvacrol [ 43].
9: As aforementioned, herbs have wide spectrum of activity the composition of herbs and their EOs are expected to have even wider spectrum of activity including their ability to act on microorganisms and therefore to modify microbiota within the gut.
10: The possibility to reduce the dose of a single essential oil and the usage of a cocktail of EOs can be important to reduce the toxicity of a single active substance as the main active substances from EOs such as thymol and carvacrol are known as toxic at least for plants and insects [ 44, 45].
11: The necessity to explore EOs influence on the microbial communities in the gut is actual for both humans and animals.
12: With the aim to develop nutraceuticals we have explored different active ingredients including bovine colostrum, probiotics and various plant by-products.
13: Here we have investigated the mix of EOs with possibility to include the selected composition as ingredient into the nutraceutical formulation.
