0: Turmeric  (Curcuma longa L.), belonging to Zingiberaceae, is a rhizomatous plant native to Southeast Asia, but is extensively cultivated worldwide, particularly in tropical countries (e.g., India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, China, Taiwan, Thailand, Sri Lanka, East Indies, Burma, Indonesia, northern Australia, Costa Rica, Haiti, Jamaica, Peru, and Brazil) [ 1, 2, 3, 4].
1: Turmeric is well known for its use as a culinary ingredient and a traditional herbal medicine [ 5].
2: It is extensively used in Asian cuisine and is one of the key ingredients in curry powders [ 6].
3: Turmeric, either fresh or in dried form, has a long history of medicinal use, dating back 4000 years [ 7].
4: Due to its bright yellow/orange color, turmeric is often referred to as the Indian saffron or golden spice.
5: Curcuminoids are considered the main bioactive components of turmeric.
6: Turmerics medical properties are credited mainly to the curcuminoids, which are abundant in turmeric rhizome [ 8].
7: The total curcumin (sum of all curcuminoids) was proven to have significant health benefits along with the potential to prevent various diseases, including Alzheimers, coronary heart disease, and cancer [ 9].
8: Due to a plethora of scientific articles on the health benefits of turmeric, the demand for turmeric is steadily increasing in the US and now represents an estimated US$36 million per annum.
9: The US imports 90% of its requirements from various countries [ 10].
10: Due to recent inconsistencies associated with quality and production methods of raw materials imported from Asian countries, many US manufacturers of herbal products are seeking domestically-produced materials that meet their standards and requirements.
11: Turmeric ( Curcuma longa) is one such crop.
12: The rhizome from which the curcumins are derived is tuberous, with a rough and segmented skin.
13: The primary rhizome is called the mother rhizome or bulb, which is pear-shaped in the center ( Figure 1).
14: The branches of mother rhizomes are the secondary rhizomes, called lateral or finger rhizomes [ 11].
15: The mother rhizomes are more matured than finger rhizomes, therefore containing higher curcuminoid concentrations and perhaps higher essential contents than finger rhizomes.
16: However, the curcumin yield from finger rhizomes is higher than that from mother rhizomes [ 12].
