0: The microwave, nonionized electromagnetic waves with 300 MHz to 300 GHz frequency are placed between radio and infrared waves in the electromagnetic spectrum.
1: These waves are made of two oscillating vertical fields, which are electrical and magnetic fields.
2: In this procedure, heating is occurred in a determined and chosen procedure without temperature waste and dissipation in the environment, it means that it is similar to heating in a closed system.
3: This heating mechanism leads to a lower extraction time in comparison with common and usual oil extraction methods.
4: The influence of this procedure is through two phenomena of ionic transfer and dipolar rotation and mostly, both of them are occurred simultaneously (Mandal, Mohan, & Hemalatha,  2007).
5: The energy of microwave penetrates into the food and generates internal temperatures, leading to a more heating rate and shorter procedure time.
6: The oilseeds have high moisture content as a dipolar material, although in this case some other materials, including salts and proteins can also act as the dielectric components (Sultana, Anwar, & Przybylski,  2007).
7: The procedure of pulsed electric fields (PEF) has more advantages toward, using the common heating procedures for foods, because its application leads to maintain the original color, aroma and taste, texture and nutritional value of foods.
8: Furthermore, PEF might increase the speed and efficiency of the extraction.
9: PEF has been used in deactivation of microorganisms in milk, dairy products, egg, water, and other food materials (Qin, Chang, BarbosaCfinovas, & Swanson,  1995).
10: Sarkis et al.
11: ( 2015) used the PEF and high voltage electrical discharge as the pretreatment in oil extraction from sesame seeds with the purpose of destructing the cell wall and increasing the oil extraction efficiency.
12: Their results indicated that when the output energy of high voltage process increases, the destruction index might increase and also these two procedures lead to an increase in oil extraction efficiency.
13: Tale Masouleh, Asadollahi, and Eshaghi ( 2015) used the PEF as the pretreatment for oil extraction from sesame seeds.
14: Their findings revealed that PEF assists the procedure of oil extraction from sesame seeds with the use of cold pressing and an electric field with intensity of 1 kV/cm and pulse power equals to 50 might led to the maximum efficiency.
15: La et al.
16: ( 2016) used the PEF to produce fat from microalgae.
17: They used the PEF with a low energy in their research and expressed that this procedure can be an appropriate replacement for common and usual methods of fat extraction.
