0: In the climate change context especially, stresses produced by a combination of temperature (both chilling and heat) and nutrient availability were identified as a white spot on the plants stress response matrix [ 53].
1: Consequently, we aim to help fill this knowledge gap, by testing the generality of trait relationships and analysing how shifts in temperature and nutrient stoichiometry influence plant functional and ecophysiological traits.
2: The traits we study are considered as hard traits, with a direct functional role such as carbon fixation, leaf instantaneous photosynthetic rate, nutrient uptake [ 21,  31] or SLA [ 46].
3: We test a fast-growing, invasive, annual C 3 grass and a slow-growing perennial species.
4: To differentiate the temperature and nutrient effects, we chose an experimental approach (aeroponic growth chambers) that allows maximum control and monitoring of conditions.
5: We formulate three hypotheses in which trait based plant economics strategies are evaluated against changes in (i) nutrient availability and (ii) temperature individually, and in combination (iii).
6: (i)Nitrogen limitation will limit growth performance independent of growth strategy but via different routes.
7: While slow growing species have evolved functional traits resulting in a more conservative life strategy that allows growth in low nutrient conditions, fast growing, invasive species will employ resource conservative ecophysiological traits in response to nutrient shortage.
8: (ii)Temperature affects the plants energy balance and metabolic rate.
9: As a response, fast growing annual and slow growing perennial species will respond with similar changes in their ecophysiological trait coordination.
10: (iii)The individual effects of nutrient or temperature stress are additive when applied in combination.
11: Potential benefits of a more conservative life strategy in slow-growing plants through functional traits vanish when ecophysiological trait coordination is needed as well.
