0: The overall condition of the trees was evaluated with the visual method invented by Kosmala et al.
1: [ 42], which is a modification of the Roloff method [ 57].
2: If experienced people visually evaluate the condition of trees, the method gives objective and repeatable results [ 42, 58].
3: The visual method enables evaluation of the condition of the crown (branches, shoots and leaves), trunk, and roots of the tree.
4: The parts of the tree are evaluated on the basis of two features: defects in tree structure and symptoms of diseases.
5: The structure of the crown is assessed based on the degree of defoliation, its vitality as well as pest infestation and infection with pathogens.
6: The assessment of the trunk concerns its structure (bark damage, wood defects and cracks) and disease symptoms.
7: The method also takes into account the assessment of the state of the tree's root system by the state of buttresses and structural roots, as well as the state of proper roots based on soil observation.
8: Individual features of the tree related to its state have been transformed into points.
9: The results obtained are used to calculate the total condition of the tree expressed as a point value which is a sum of the crown, trunk and root zone condition assessment.
10: The degree of damage is described as a percentage share of the total condition.
11: The tree can have a maximum score of 100 points, which means 100% of health (30 points for the condition of the crown, 30 points for the condition of trunk and 40 points for the condition of the roots), on a five-point scale, where 015 points means very poor condition, 1645 poor condition, 4675 average condition, 7695 good condition, 96100 very good condition.
12: The final stage of assessment is to determine the vitality phase of the trees (very good and goodexpansion phase, medium degreeweakness, bad degreestagnation, very bad degreeresignation phase).
13: The condition of the trees in all three cities was evaluated in August 2018.
