0: Classical methods of extraction, such as solid-liquid extraction with organic solvents, are used for the extraction of lipid fractions and essential oils from aromatic plants.
1: These solvents provide good recovery of oil and other compounds, but they have certain drawbacks such as potential human and environmental toxicity.
2: Compared with the classical methods, hydrodistillation has been the most common method used to extract the essential oils from plants.
3: Although this method still has drawbacks such as long extraction times and high energy use, hydrodistillation is the simplest and most practical method [ 10, 11].
4: Recently, there has been great interest in subcritical extraction for its mild operational temperature, no solvent residues and better nutrition retention.
5: Because subcritical solvents have the advantages of high density, high diffusively and low viscosity, the subcritical extraction method has been widely applied in lipid and essential oil extraction [ 12].
6: Furthermore, it is reported that simultaneous distillation-extraction (SDE) could be also used in essential oil extraction.
7: This one-step extraction technique is less time consuming and allows a greater reduction of solvent volumes due to the continuous recycling.
8: Under certain conditions a higher yield and richer ingredients could be achieved and the extracts obtained by SDE are free from non-volatile materials such as cuticular waxes and chlorophylls [ 13, 14].
9: Recently, our laboratory has focused on searching for valuable plant essential oils which could be applied in the food safety and preservation.
10: Up to now,  A. argyi essential oils extracted by simultaneous distillation have never been reported.
11: In this study, we examined different methods, including SDE, subcritial extraction and hydro-distillation, for  A. argyi essential oil extraction and characterized the corresponding compositions.
12: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of these methods on the yield and the biological characteristics of the essential oil, and to analyze its inhibitory effects on microorganisms that cause vegetable, fruit and other food losses.
