0: The variation in chemical composition of essential oils (EOs) as affected by plant phenology and environmental factors is a crucial limitation in standardization of EOs and thus their effective implementation into novel organic farming.
1: The cultivation of medicinal and aromatic plants (MAP) using bio-elicitors has been advocated as genuine tool to sustainably assure higher quantity and quality EOs.
2: Herein, a field trial and laboratory bioassays were undergone to decipher the impact of a local arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) inoculation on agro-morphological yield, EO output and differential suppression of common bean (  Phaseolus vulgaris L.) root rot incited by   Fusarium solani.
3: The field experiment was laid out following a completely randomized block design (CRBD) with two treatments; non-inoculated control and AMF-inoculation in triplicates.
4: The effects of the EOs were tested against mycelial growth, conidia and common bean seeds germination.
5: Promising concentrations were thereafter assessed for their suppressive effect against   Fusariun solani in planta.
6: A significantly higher collar diameter, hypocotyl branching and subsequent Mycorrhizal Dependency (MD) in mycorrhizal lemongrass [(+)AMF] compared to non-inoculated counterpart [(-)AMF].
7: The resulting EOs consistently repressed   F. solani Fs4 conidia germination and mycelium deployment in a dose-dependent manner, with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 500 ppm for both the EOs, and 125 ppm for the reference fungicide (Ridomil Plus 44 WP).
8: The EO from mycorrhizal lemongrass protected the common bean plantlets from infection by   F. solani Fs4 both in laboratory and greenhouse conditions, leading to healthier and vigorous plantlets.
9: The best protection rate was once more obtained with EO from AMF-primed lemongrass at the concentration of 1000 ppm (65.0%) while the lowest disease severity was obtained with Ridomil Plus 44 WP (63.13%).
10: Overall, AMF inoculation shifted the lemongrass biochemical processes with subsequent impact on growth, and an enhanced suppression in Fusarium root rot under greenhouse conditions.
