0: Authors contributionsZS conducted the AFM experiments, was responsible for MIC determination and associated data analysis.
1: AAG conceived the idea of using essential oils and provided intellectual input into the manuscript.
2: TS designed all experiments and performed LSCM, cell wall stress experiments and wrote an initial draft of the paper.
3: MW provided knock-out strains, JM clinical strains and each provided intellectual input into the data interpretation and manuscript.
4: TESD wrote the initial research proposal, supervised the work, provided intellectual input and edited the manuscript.
5: All authors read and approved the final manuscript.AcknowledgementsWe are grateful to Dr. Richard J. Bennett, Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University, USA, for providing the RSY150 and RSY35 for this study.
6: We thank Rebecca Jameson for the GC-FID and GCMS analysis of the CNB oil and Cheghaf Madarati for images of glucanase treated    C. albicans.
7: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.Consent for publicationNot applicable.Ethics approval and consent to participateCommittees from the following institutions approved this study: University of Reginas research ethics board and Regina QuAppelle Health Region.
8: Samples were taken as part of routine care and anonymized, therefore according to ethical guidelines a wavier was granted for patient consent since this is no longer considered personal data.FundingThis work was supported by National Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) grant to TESD (228206-07) and a NSERC Canada Research Chair to MW (950-228957).
9: TESD was supported by the Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI).
10: TS was partially supported by the Faculty of Science and TESDs CFI IOF.
11: ZS was partially supported by the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research at the University of Regina.Publishers NoteSpringer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
