0: Essential oils are mainly composed of aromatic and volatile compounds and can be obtained from different parts of plants, especially the leaves and flowers 1.
1: Indeed, in plants, they are either secreted directly from the protoplasm by the degradation of cell membrane and resin materials or by the hydrolysis of some glycosides 2.
2: In particular, glycosides produced by different species of plants and stored in different organs have a strict relationship with biosynthesis, metabolism and biological activity and are mostly affected by the environmental climatic conditions 3.
3: Essential oils are usually rich in terpenes, sesquiterpenes, esters, aldehydes, phenols, ethers and peroxides 3,  4; they are mostly colorless or yellowish, less dense than water and soluble in organic solvents 5.
4: They are widely used in various industries, including the food and cosmetic industries among others 6.
5: Moreover, since ancient times, they have been widely used for the treatment of different disorders thanks to their well-known antioxidant, antimicrobial and antifungal properties 7  9.
6: Currently, essential oils have been proposed and tested in alternative medicine, especially as antimicrobial and antifungal products.
7: Indeed, there is increased demand for safe and effective plant-derived bioactives as an alternative to antimicrobial synthetic drugs because their widespread and continuous use has led to the modification of microbes that have become resistant, thus reducing the therapeutic effect of these drugs 10.
8: Essential oils derived from plants have demonstrated promising antimicrobial therapeutic effects, which are generally accompanied by reduced side effects 11.
9: They have been screened and used in pharmacology, herbal pharmacology, medical microbiology and phytopathology 12 especially because of their known insecticidal, antifungal, anti-parasitic, antibacterial, antiviral, antioxidant and cytotoxic properties 13.
10: These activities are related to the lipophilic nature of the hydrocarbon skeleton and of the functional groups of the bioactives.
11: Indeed, the hydrophobic properties of the bioactives facilitate their interaction with bacteria and entrance into the cell, where they can exert their therapeutic effect.
12: Rod-shaped cells and Gram-positive bacteria seem to be more sensitive than Gram-negative bacteria to these bioactives 5,  14.
