0: Among invasive insect pests, many whiteflies (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) species have become widely distributed due to anthropogenic activities, especially national and international trade, with dramatic consequences for agriculture, due to their ability to cause direct damages to the crop and to transmit plant viruses 18,  19.
1: Due to habitat fragmentation creating abundant and diverse niches, Italy is one of the most welcoming territories in Europe for foreign species, such as the Orange Spiny Whitefly (OSW)  Aleurocanthus spiniferus (Quaintance, 1903) (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae).
2: OSW, a whitefly species originating from China and South and Southeast Asia, was reported for the first time in 2008 in the EU territory in Southern Italy, Apulia Region 20.
3: Currently, OSW has been found in central and northern regions of Italy, beside other countries across the European Adriatic coast as Croatia, Montenegro and Greece 21  26.
4: OSW is currently included in the EPPO list (A2) as a quarantine pest threatening Europe.
5: The main OSW host plants are  Citrus spp.
6: : infested plants show a general weakening due to sap loss, and a severe reduction of photosynthesis and respiration activities caused by sooty mold developing on the abundant honeydew produced by the whitefly that completely covers the plant.
7: Eventually, heavily infested trees have an almost completely black appearance, and the fruits are unmarketable 24.
8: Infestations of  Citrus spp.
9: plants by the sibling species  Aleurocanthus woglumi (Ashby, 1915) (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) have been reported to reduce fruit setting by ca.
10: 80% 24.
11: In addition, the whitefly seems rapidly adapting to the European environment; indeed  A. spiniferus is creating new trophic associations with previously unreported host plants, such as grapevine,  Parthenocissus sp.,  Ailanthus altissima, and other cultivated and ornamental plants 21,  24,  26.
12: However, such plants can be just transient hosts serving as shelter during periods when the main hosts, i.e.
13: Citrus spp.
14: plants, become unsuitable/less suitable 24,  26.
15: Beside the economic losses, the spread of OSW in Italy is considered as having serious environmental consequences.
16: Indeed, the growers reacted to infestations with a massive use of synthetic wide-spectrum insecticides applied untimely and without technical criteria that, besides having proved ineffective, might have caused serious side effects on the environment and non-target arthropods, together with the possible development of resistant whitefly populations 21,  24,  26  28.
17: As observed by Vieira et al .28 for the congeneric species  A. woglumi in Brazil, the use of mineral oils, vegetable oils, or derivate, may result in improved control strategies for the pest with minimal adverse effects on populations of natural enemies and non-target species 28.
18: Indeed, low-impact organic certified pesticides could be integrated with augmentative biological control 21,  26,  29, developing a sustainable strategy for the management of OSW.
19: Such strategy, important in conventional agriculture to produce safe and sustainable products, would be crucial in organic farming, where relatively few pesticides are available and allowed (EU Regulation (EC) No 889/2008) 30.
20: Furthermore, pesticides should be evaluated not just depending on short-term efficacy, but looking at direct and indirect effects possibly altering pest physiology and behavior, with consequences irradiating from the single individual exposed to the toxicant, to population and community-level 16,  31.
21: Overall, the implementation of a sustainable and effective OSW control strategy applicable in organic  Citrus spp.
22: farming, which represents an important part of the agricultural economy of the entire Mediterranean area 32, is an urgent issue of paramount importance.
23: Therefore, we tested the effects of different organic-certified pesticides on OSW, both in terms of lethal toxicity and of sublethal effects on insects behavior, i.e.
24: on host searching, landing, oviposition, and probing and feeding behaviors.
