0: Solid OM in shale is typically highly heterogeneous at the submicron length scale.
1: Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) has shown that adjacent micron-sized OM grains sometimes differ greatly in porosity 10.
2: This heterogeneity can result from innate differences in the OM originally deposited in the shale and potentially from local variations in the extent of thermal alteration brought on by catalysis from nearby mineral grains.
3: While SEM provides detailed, high-resolution information on pores in OM, it provides no information on the type, chemical composition, or mechanical properties of that OM.
4: Organic petrography via incident light microscopy allows the identification of various types of organic components and has been broadly applied to shale petroleum systems 11, but again this technique provides no direct molecular or mechanical data.
5: Numerous bulk measurements, such as programmed pyrolysis (Rock-Eval) and various spectroscopies 12 including infrared spectroscopy 13,  14, have documented dramatic variations in the average chemical composition of OM across a wide maturation range, but these bulk analyses cannot assess heterogeneity at small spatial scales.
6: Progress toward documenting geochemical heterogeneity in shale has been realized by application of Fourier transform infrared microscopy (micro-FTIR) 15  19.
7: Nevertheless, micro-FTIR cannot reliably resolve chemical features at the submicron length scale relevant to shale due to the diffraction limit 17,  19,  20.
8: Alternatively, Raman imaging provides structural information on the degree of organization of OM at the micron length scale but suffers from strong fluorescence background for immature shale samples 21  23.
9: Geomechanical heterogeneity in shale has been studied by nanoindentation at the micron length scale 24,  25 and by atomic force microscopy (AFM) in peak force tapping mode at nanoscale 26,  27, but these techniques provide no information regarding chemical composition.
