0: AFM-based infrared spectroscopy (AFM-IR) is a rapidly emerging technique in materials and life sciences 28  34 that provides chemical and mechanical stiffness mapping at nanoscale unaffected by the diffraction limit, in additional to topographic imaging by AFM.
1: During the measurement, an AFM probe with tip radius smaller than 25 nm is placed in contact with an area of interest simultaneously irradiated with a tunable IR laser 29.
2: When the laser wavelength is tuned to an infrared absorption band of the sample material, the sample thermally expands as the energy of absorbed photons is converted to heat.
3: That thermal expansion acts as a force impulse on the AFM cantilever, driving it into oscillation.
4: Oscillation amplitude is directly proportional to the local IR absorption coefficient at the IR wavelength at which the sample is irradiated.
5: Because the AFM tip remains in contact with the sample, the contact resonance (CR) frequency of the coupled sample-cantilever system provides information about the samples mechanical stiffness, with higher frequency corresponding to stiffer materials and lower to softer materials (quantitatively translating the measured CR frequency to stiffness requires extensive modeling of the mechanical response of the cantilever to the photothermal expansion of the sample, so stiffness in AFM-IR measurements is typically described using the CR frequency) 28  30.
6: Thus, at a fixed laser wavelength, IR absorption and stiffness images can be collected simultaneously by recording the AFM cantilever oscillation amplitude and frequency.
7: The spatial resolution is independent of the IR laser spot size, thus no longer limited by diffraction, but instead determined by the contact area between the probe and the sample as well as by the samples thermomechanical properties 28  31,  35.
8: The typical spatial resolution of the resulting chemical image is ~100 nm 28  31,  35, orders of magnitude finer than the spatial resolution attainable by traditional micro-FTIR.
9: Additionally, localized IR spectra can be obtained by measuring the AFM oscillation amplitude while tuning the IR laser wavelength.
10: The resulting local IR absorption spectra are nearly identical to those measured with bulk transmission FTIR 28  31,  35, providing information on chemical composition and structural characteristics.
