0: Dirkx, Boyer [ 120] found that  T. vaginalis has the gene-coding capacity to produce the enzyme beta-fructofuranosidase that is capable of hydrolyzing di- and tri-saccharides such as sucrose containing a terminal non-reducing fructose residue, suggesting that the inability of sucrose to support the growth of  T. vaginalis is not due to the lack of an enzyme that can degrade (catabolize) the disaccharide.
1: Puente-Rivera, Villalpando [ 121] characterized the previously identified 50 kDa metalloproteinase aminopeptidase P member TvMP50 as a new zinc-ion-mediated parasite virulence factor.
2: These observations and additional studies suggest that the presence of TvMP50 during male trichomoniasis might explain the survival of  T. vaginalis within the adverse conditions of the male urogenital microenvironment.
3: In a follow-up study, Arreola, Villalpando [ 122] reported that the TvMP50 metalloproteinase is a monomeric aminopeptidase P-like enzyme.
4: Will inhibition of the virulence enzyme protect males against trichomoniasis?
5: ODonoghue, Bibo-Verdugo [ 16] showed that clinically approved cancer drugs that inhibit the proteasome also have high activity in the enriched  T. vaginalis in cell-free assays.
6: The proteasome inhibitor carmaphycin-17 (Fig.
7: 2) derived from the marine natural product carmaphycin showed greater activity against  T. vaginalis than the reference drug metronidazole, as well as the ability to overcome metronidazole resistance.
8: The authors suggest that these observations and additional mechanistic studies validate the proteasome of  T. vaginalis as a therapeutic target for the development of a novel class of trichomonacidal agents.
9: Quan, Kang [ 123] found that cervical epithelium cells exposed to  T. vaginalis for 4 h produced intracellular and mitochondrial ROS in a parasite-load-dependent manner and that subsequent treatment with the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine [CH 2(SH)-CH (NHCOCH 3)-COOH, NAC] reversed the effect on apoptosis and NF- B inactivation of the cells.
10: Another example is the observation by Sharma, Kumar [ 124] that a synthetic thiol compound eliminated  T. vaginalis more efficiently than metronidazole via sulfhydryl-disulfide interchange reactions.
11: The authors suggest that this represents a proof of concept for the selective targeting of Trichomonas.
12: This proof of concept is supported by our observation that modification of disulfide bonds of the enzyme that inhibits trypsin in soy flour by cysteine [(CH 2(SH)-CH (NH 2)-COOH] and NAC through formation of mixed disulfides resulted in loss of inhibitory activity and in increased digestibility and nutritional value in rats [ 125].
13: Possible molecular mechanisms for these events might involve the initial reaction of the added sulfhydryl (thiol) compound (R-SH  cysteine, NAC, etc.)
14: with a trichomonas protein disulfide bond (P-S-S-P) to form R-S-S-P (a mixed disulfide) + P-SH (disulfide-reduced protein).
15: These transformations could produce biologically inactive trichomonad proteins with mixed and rearranged disulfide bonds [ 126] that might be responsible for the loss of pathogenicity.
16: These observations imply that SH-antioxidants can protect cells against oxidative damage by  T. vaginalis.
17: Because antioxidative amino acid cysteine [(CH 2(SH)-CH (NH 2)-COOH] and the cysteine derivative NAC also protected frog embryos against adverse effects of acrylamide [ 127,  128], will cysteine, NAC, and the tripeptide glutathione, and other antioxidative (anti-free radical) sulfhydryl (SH)-containing compounds also protect human and animal tissues against adverse effects induced by ROS [ 129] produced by  T.  vaginalis and  T.  foetus?
