0: Asarum heterotropoides Fr.
1: Schmidt var.
2: mandshuricum (Maxim.)
3: Kitag., a perennial herb endemic to China, has been exploited as a traditional medicinal herb due to its anti-inflammatory, anti-bacterial, anti-pyretic, anticancer, fungistatic and analgesic properties [ 1,  2].
4: This species has a wide geographical distribution and grows in shady habitats and mountainous wetlands.
5: The main producing areas are Jilin, Liaoning, and Heilongjiang in China [ 3].
6: Previous studies have documented that the main bioactive ingredient is the essential oil for which more than 82 components have been identified [ 4,  5].
7: As a sciophyte, different studies have demonstrated that growing in different solar irradiance levels affects the leaf mass to per unit area of the plant, chlorophyll content, and net photosynthetic rate [ 6].
8: Two recent studies demonstrated that light intensities affect photosynthesis and chlorophyll content but the content of  Asarum volatile oil did not change among different groups [ 6,  7].
9: However, the study by Wang et al., [ 7] used GC-MS to determine the composition of the oil and reported variation in oil composition under different light treatments suggesting that light treatments somehow affect the regulation of the pathways involved in volatile oil biosynthesis.
10: The main components of  Asarum essential oil used in the pharmaceutical industry are phenylpropane compounds including methyleugenol, safrole, myristicin, 1,3-benzodioxole, 4-methoxy-6- (2-propenyl)-, 3,5-dimethoxytoluene, 2-Hydroxy-4,5- methylenedioxypropiophenone, etc., these compounds account for about 70% of the total volatile oil content [ 4].
11: In addition to the above mentioned recent studies, a previous investigation reported that the content of major components was subjected to seasonal variation [ 8].
12: In other species, the effect of light intensities on growth and accumulation of essential oils and secondary metabolites has been established e.g.
13: manipulation of the light affected the secondary metabolite contents in  Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch [ 9].
14: Similarly, solar irradiance levels altered volatile oil contents in basil ( Ocimum basilicum L.),  Myrtus communis L.,  Ocimum gratissimum, damask rose ( Rosa damascena Mill.
15: ), and other aromatic plants [ 10 13].
16: These contradicting reports suggest that a deeper understanding is a prerequisite for establishing an optimal irradiation protocol for  Asarum growth, which can provide high yield of volatile oil and its major bioactive components for industrial scale volatile oils.
