0: In recent years, researchers are giving more emphasis on developing mixtures to contribute a new dimension to prevent resistance evolution in the vector control strategy.
1: A mixture of compounds or essential oils exerts either synergistic effect, antagonistic effect or no effect.
2: Plant essential oil mixtures employing synergistic actions are considered to have a higher and longer lasting effect than pure organic compounds alone and therefore they are gaining more attention.
3: Synergistic combinations of two or more agents can overcome side effects associated with high doses of single one by decreasing the risk of resistance development, sparing doses on each compound, or accessing context-specific multi-target mechanisms ( Lehar et al., 2009;  Youssefi et al., 2019).
4: There have been fewer records of the use of essential oil mixtures as mosquitocidal, although few synergistic activity of mixtures of essential oils with synthetic insecticides have been reported against field crop pests and stored product pests ( Suwannayod et al., 2019).
5: Moreover, the study on the potentiality of combinations purely made up of plant essential oils against mosquitoes is rare.
6: In the current investigation, 155 numbers of binary mixtures are prepared from the selected essential oils.
7: All total, twenty-eight essential oils are extracted from twenty-five numbers of plants to study their mosquitocidal activities which are selected based on traditional knowledge and literature review (Table S1).
8: Among these, some plants are already explored and some are investigated for the first time against  C. quinquefasciatus.
9: Based on their efficacy in terms of sublethal concentration, effective plant essential oils are selected for combination study to find out synergistic combinations.
10: To compare the toxicity of synthetic insecticides with the plant essential oils, the larval and adult stages of  C. quinquefasciatus are also treated with two commercially available WHO recommended synthetic organophosphates namely Temephos and Malathion respectively.
