0: Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal and fungicidal concentration (MBC and MFC) of pure  T. pulegioides -TA chemotype essential oil and pure () -TA 90% (-TA) (Sigma Aldrich, Germany) were determined using a broth microdilution method.
1: For the antimicrobial effect tests, essential oil and -TA was dissolved in 96% ( v/ v) ethanol.
2: Final concentrations of  T. pulegioides essential oil and -TA were 50% ( v/ v) for  E. coli,  S. aureus,  Candida albicans, and  C. parapsilosis, and 10% ( v/ v) for  Aspergillus fumigatus,  A. flavus,  Trichophyton rubrum, and  T. mentagrophytes.
3: Final concentrations of  T. pulegioides essential oil and -TA were 50% ( v/ v) for  E. coli,  S. aureus,  Candida albicans, and  C. parapsilosis, and 10% ( v/ v) for  Aspergillus fumigatus,  A. flavus,  Trichophyton rubrum, and  T. mentagrophytes.
4: The serial dilutions were prepared in RPMI 1640 with  l-glutamine without sodium bicarbonate (Sigma Aldrich, Germany) for fungi and yeasts, MuellerHinton broth (Oxoid, England) for bacteria, both in 96-well plates.
5: Samples of oil were added to the first well Finally, the suspensions of cultures were added to each well and incubated at 37 C for 24 h or 48 h to get reliable microbial growth.
6: A suspension of microorganisms in the medium without essential oil and -TA served as growth control.
7: A 50% or 10% ( v/ v) ethanol was used as a negative control for the solvent influence.
8: To control the sensitivity of the test organisms the MIC values of gentamycin ( E. coli), vancomycin ( S. aureus) and itraconazole for yeasts, fungi and dermatophytes were individually performed in parallel experiments.
9: The MIC of gentamycin, vancomycin and itraconazole were determined using Liofilchem  MIC test strip (Liofilchem, Roseto degli Abruzzi (TE), Italy), Interpretative Criteria and Quality Control Rev.27/27.01.2017.
10: After incubation, the growth of microorganisms was indicated by the presence of turbidity and pellets on the well bottom.
11: MICs were determined presumptively as the first well, in ascending order, which did not produce a pellet.
12: The wells with no visible growth were selected and samples were used to determine minimum bactericidal and fungicidal concentration (MBC and MFC).
13: Briefly, after homogenization a 10 L of each suspension was cultured on Mueller-Hinton agar or Sabouraud dextrose agar.
14: This culture was incubated at 37 C for 24 h for bacteria or at 35 C for 48 h for fungi, yeast and dermatophytes.
15: The MBC or MFC was estimated from the culture medium in which no visible microbial growth was recorded during examination.
16: The tests were performed in triplicate [ 72].
