0: Recently, worldwide attention on the use of therapeutic herbs in the treatment of different diseases has been growing extensively owing to their promising outcomes and rare side effects [ 1].
1: As explained by the World Health Organization (WHO), more than two-thirds of the worlds general population, mainly in developing nations, depend on the use of natural remedies and traditional herbs for their main health care and disease treatment.
2: Thus, the WHO has encouraged emerging countries to integrate the use of therapeutic plants as a supplementary resource to increase the effectiveness of the health care programs [ 1, 2].
3: Among the evidence-based herbal remedies, highly ranked as a miracle herb is  Nigella sativa (NS) [ 3, 4] NS is a yearly blossoming plant from the family  Ranunculaceae also known as black cumin, black seed, habbatul barakah, black caraway, kalojeera, kalonji or kalanji and is native to the southern regions of Asia and numerous countries in the Middle East and the Mediterranean region [ 4, 5, 6].
4: In historic and traditional medicine, NS has been utilized for centuries for the treatment of numerous illnesses of the body and psyche.
5: The medicinal assets of NS have been established in the Islamic medicine, Chinese traditional treatments, Unani, Ayurveda and other medicinal systems [ 7, 8].
6: Investigations have accredited the health benefits of NS due to its rich nutritional content and active components [ 4].
7: The seeds are composed of fixed and essential oils, alkaloids, proteins and saponins [ 4, 9].
8: Among the pharmacologically active components that have been isolated from NS up to now the most described active and therapeutic constituent is thymoquinone (TQ) [ 9].
9: Numerous investigators have expansively reviewed NS and TQ and found them to have various medicinal activities, such as anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antimicrobial, analgesic, histamine release inhibitory, hypoglycemic, anticarcinogenic, antihypertensive, immune-activating and hepatoprotective effects [ 3, 4].
