0: Infections of the periodontal ligament and gingiva have plagued humans since early historic ages.
1: Paleo-pathological reports have displayed that periodontal complications specified by bone loss have pathologically affected early humans in diverse cultures around the world [ 10].
2: gingivitis is the slightest form of periodontal disease and defines the gingival inflammation due to the accumulation of plaque and bacteria between the gumline and tooth.
3: This reactive condition is reversible with improving oral hygiene.
4: In periodontitis the periodontal condition develops into a chronic, irreversible, bone destroying inflammatory disease.
5: This induces a host immune response to protect against the invading microorganisms.
6: During the defensive mechanism against the bacteria, the host immune reactions also incite the periodontal destruction through the loss of bone attachments, subsequently leading to alveolar bone loss of the affected tooth [ 11].
7: Non-surgical handling can be effective in mild to moderate periodontitis while surgical action is important in progressive conditions [ 10].
8: Adjunctive to the mechanical scaling and root planning in the treatment of periodontal diseases, confined systems of drug delivery, mouth washes, irrigations and devices for sustained drug release are used regularly for conveyance of therapeutic agents [ 10, 12].
9: Furthermore, it has been reported that regular periodontal treatment along with the use of an adjunctive therapeutic mediator can improve patient outcomes significantly compared to mechanical treatment alone [ 10, 13].
10: Modern day chemotherapeutic mediators exhibited significant effectiveness in the treatment of periodontal disease, but display a number of objectionable adverse effects such as taste alteration, tooth and tongue discoloration, antimicrobial resistance and the higher prices of these compounds [ 14, 15].
11: Thus, the application of natural and herbal products as NS and TQ for periodontal treatment has garnered increased attention recently and could provide great benefits, especially to populations of lower socioeconomic status around the globe [ 4, 16].
