0: Evolution of Increased Competitive Ability identifies herbivores as the primary selective agent for shifts in defense and growth characteristics in invasive populations.
1: Blossey and Notzold ( 1995) suggested that the species  Lythrum salicaria allocates significant resources to defenses against coevolved specialist herbivores in its native range, and this allocation constrains growth of the species, as suggested by optimal defense theory.
2: In the invasive range of  L. salicaria where the coevolved herbivore is absent, plant allocation shifts from defenses to higher growth, and these reduced defenses and greater allocation to growth become genetically fixed in invasive populations.
3: Herbivore release has been experimentally confirmed as a selective agent in  Oenothera biennis, where herbivore exclusion by insecticide use leads to reductions in population frequencies of quantitative defense compounds within a few generations (Agrawal et al.
4: 2012).
5: However, few invasive species enjoy total release from herbivory (Muller-Scharer et al.
6: 2004), particularly those species in which coevolved herbivores from the native range have been introduced either accidentally (Zangerl and Berenbaum  2005) or as part of classical biological control methods (Thomas and Reid  2007; Van Driesche et al.
7: 2010).
8: The Shifting Defense Hypothesis (SDH), which suggests that specialist-targeted defenses (digestibility reducers) will decrease as generalist-targeted defenses (leaf toxins) increase in invasive populations, was proposed as a refinement of EICA to better reflect the reality of partial release from herbivores in the invasive range (Muller-Scharer et al.
9: 2004; Joshi and Vrieling  2005; Doorduin and Vrieling  2011).
10: Herbivore release, however, may not be the only or even the primary selective pressure on invasive populations.
11: A review by Colautti et al.
12: ( 2009) of EICA studies suggested that shifts in performance traits for plant species in invasive ranges exhibit latitudinal clines, which may indicate adaptation to climate (Buswell et al.
13: 2011).
14: Stochastic, nonselective evolutionary processes (founder events, multiple introductions, hybridization, bottlenecks, isolation by distance; reviewed in Keller and Taylor  2008; see also Durka et al.
15: 2005; Vasemagi  2006) also have the potential to alter defense and growth traits important to plant success.
16: Studies designed to test the specific predictions of evolutionary change laid out by EICA may be used to evaluate evidence of evolutionary change in invasive plants without reference to putative selective or stochastic agents.
