0: Nanoparticles resulting from the chemical methods used today have caused many worries, due to the use of hazardous and toxic chemical materials, as well as an environmental problem [ 21 25].
1: Among nanoparticles, silver, gold, and iron nanoparticles have received more attention due to their biological significance and medical applications.
2: However, the chemical methods of preparing these NPs have left some toxic reactions that prevent the use of nanoparticles in biological applications [ 26 28].
3: The production of NPs using green chemistry has found a special place in research, and various types of biological systems are used for this purpose [ 29].
4: The use of microparticles, diatoms, and optical eukaryotes is one of these methods.
5: But they are less commonly used due to their high cost of production and maintenance [ 30].
6: Today, plants and agricultural products have received particular attention as renewable sources for biomaterials [ 29,  31,  32].
7: Therefore, the identification of useful materials of native plants, their extraction for the production of nanoparticles, and their medical applications has become very important due to the problems mentioned above and the diversity of climates and plant flora in Iran [ 32].
8: These features are especially important for plants, such as  Satureja hortensis (SH), which is exclusively native to Iran and has received little studies [ 31,  33 35].
9: Satureja hortensis is one of the plants from the mint family that has not only many applications in traditional medicine but also the antimicrobial activity of its phenolic compounds, thymol, and carvacrol has been proven to some extent on some fungal species [ 36 39].
10: In this research, therefore, green synthesis of FeNPs was performed using SH essential oil because of the mentioned problems and the importance of Satureja hortensis plant.
11: Subsequently, the accuracy of the formation of synthesized nanoparticles, photochemical and morphological characteristics, particle size, active functional groups, and existing ions was investigated using conventional methods.
12: The MIC, MBC, and MFC efficiencies of green synthesized FeNPs and SH essential oil were evaluated on five selected pathogenic microbes, including four bacteria and one fungus.
13: Finally, the anticancer performances of the green-synthesized magnetite NPs were examined against K-562 and (Michigan Cancer Foundation) MCF-7 human cancer cells.
