0: Rhus coriaria L., commonly known as sumac, is a Mediterranean plant that belongs to the Anacardiaceae family and is traditionally used as a spice and flavoring agent [ 1].
1: It grows as a shrub with a height range of 34 m and has pinnate leaves arranged in pairs of 6 or 8 small leaflets, with a cluster of white flowers at terminal inflorescences ( Figure 1A).
2: The fruits are spherical and become reddish drupe when ripe ( Figure 1B) [ 2].
3: Dried fruits, reduced to a dark red powder, with an acidic and astringent taste is often used as spice in several Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries such as Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Turkey, and Iran [ 3].
4: For example, powdered sumac is often directly added to salad or offered along with minced meat to add lemony taste.
5: In some countries like Lebanon and Syria, powdered sumac is sometimes used in the composition of zaatar, a mixture of herbs and spices in infusion or as a replacement for capers and red pepper.
6: At the industrial level, Sumac leaves and bark, which contain large amounts of tannins, were used for centuries in tanning fine leather [ 4].
7: In addition to its use as a culinary herb and tanning agent,  Rhus coriaria has been used in Middle Eastern and South Asian countries, for thousands of years, as a traditional medicine for the treatment of several diseases including cancer [ 5, 6, 7].
8: Sumac fruits were used in folks medicine to treat several illnesses that include liver disease [ 8], diarrhea [ 8, 9, 10], urinary system issues [ 8], and ulcers [ 11].
9: In addition, the powdered fruits were also used to stimulate perspiration and reduce cholesterol [ 10].
10: The many therapeutic effects of  Rhus coriaria could be attributed to its various biological properties such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, hypoglycemic, hypolipidemic activities [ 2].
11: As of today, over 200 phytochemicals were isolated from  Rhus coriaria and these include organic acids, phenolic acids, phenolic compounds conjugated with malic acid derivatives, flavonoids, isoflavonoids, hydrolysable tannins, anthocyanins, terpenoids, and other compounds such as butein, iridoid, and coumarin derivatives.
12: This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the phytochemical and pharmacological studies published on  Rhus coriaria.
