0: The rhizomes of five turmeric varieties belonging to  C. longa (CL3, CL5, CL9, CL10, and CL11) obtained from various sources ( Table 1) were planted in seed germination trays filled with a soilless potting mix (Pro-Mix) on 3 April 2019.
1: After planting, the trays were placed in a glass greenhouse at Alabama A&M University, Normal, AL (natural daylight increasing from 11 h in mid-March to about 14.5 h in early June; mean air temperature maintained at 26 C) for 70 days for sprouting and plant development.
2: The 10-week-old plants were then transplanted onto raised beds (60 cm wide, 15 cm high, 25 m long, 2 m apart, covered with black plastic mulch with drip irrigation tubing underneath the plastic) on 25 June 2019 at the Alabama A&M Winfred Thomas Agricultural Research Station located in Hazelgreen, AL (Latitude 3489 N and longitude 8656 W).
3: Soil at the experimental site was a Decatur silt loam (fine, kaolinitic, thermic Rhodic Paleudult).
4: The plants were grown using organic production methods and irrigation was provided as and when needed by the drip method.
5: Prior to making the raised beds, the soil was plowed with a rototiller, and a mixture of composted cow manure, poultry litter, and vermicompost was incorporated into the soil at a rate equivalent to 45.5 kg of N/ha.
6: Once the crop was established, a fish emulsion-based organic soluble fertilizer, Neptunes HarvestTM (Seven Springs Organic Farming and Gardening Supplies, Check, VA, USA), was applied through the irrigation system at 3-week intervals.
7: Three plants from the middle of each row were harvested in mid-February 2020 by digging the plants, separating the rhizomes from the shoot, and washing clean of soil and debris with forced water jets.
8: The mother and lateral rhizomes ( Figure 1) were separated and placed in mesh trays and dried of excess water using fans at room temperature.
9: The rhizomes were then placed in a cooler box with ice and carried to the chemistry department at the University of Alabama in Huntsville for oil extraction and profiling.
