0: ObjectivesPlants have been used as traditional medicine (TM) since ancient times and TM remains an effective treatment option in the primary health care system in developing countries, including Bangladesh.
1: There are several reasons to use plants as TM, which are cheaply and easily available and have a cultural heritage of their uses across generations.
2: Leea, a genus of the Vitaceae family, possesses a large number of medicinal plants.
3: In this review, the literature data on the traditional uses and pharmacological activities of    Leea species and their phytochemicals are compiled.
4: All the information was collected from the scientific databases.
5: ResultsLeea species are endemic that have opened a promising research field to identify new leads against different diseases.
6: Leea contains approximately 70 species, which are widely distributed throughout the Northern and Eastern Australia, South and Southeast Asia and parts of Africa.
7: The    Leea plants are used traditionally in different ailments such as fever, diarrhea, dysentery, joint pain, rheumatism, diabetes, bone fracture, body ache, wound, sexual disorders, and so on.
8: The majority of the    Leea species are the medicinal plants, which have anticancer, cytotoxic, antimicrobial, antidiabetic, hepatoprotective, cardiovascular, and CNS activity.
9: Moreover, phytochemicals such as flavonoids, glycosides, phenols, terpenoids, steroids, volatile oils, alkaloids, proteins, quinine derivatives, tannins, saponins, and many other organic compounds have been reported in the    Leea species (   Leea indica,    Leea macrophylla,    Leea asiatica,    Leea aequata, Leea rubra and    Leea guineensis)   .
10: The presence of phytochemicals and the    in vitro and    in vivo biological activities reported of these plants support their use as TM.
11: Though original research articles related to the    Leea genus are available, supportive reviews on phytochemicals and pharmacological activities remain scarce.
12: ConclusionLeea species are used as TM in different ailments and have a real interest in their diverse pharmacological properties.
13: Also,    Leea species contain a remarkable number of bioactive compounds.
14: This review has provided a comprehensive report on the plants of    Leea genus to identify its therapeutic potential and future prospects for betterment research.
15: However, chemical and biological investigations of several species of    Leea genus remain unexplored.
16: Therefore, further studies on these species are necessary, especially regarding pharmacological properties, isolation of the compounds and mechanism of action for the development of new drugs.
