0: Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) represent an important part of the plant metabolome and attract agronomic and biological interest due to their contribution to fruit aroma and flavor and, therefore, to fruit quality.
1: Analysis of the composition of VOCs in plant flowers is a prerequisite for the application of their extracts 1,  2.
2: The extraction/isolation techniques of VOCs include simultaneous distillation and solvent extraction (SDE), supercritical fluid extraction (SFE), hydrodistillation (HD), microwave-assisted hydrodistillation (MAHD), cold-press (CP), headspace (HS) extraction, and solid phase microextraction (SPME) 3  6.
3: Gas chromatographymass spectrometry (GCMS) is commonly employed to detect VOCs.
4: Conventional extraction methods (such as SDE, HD, etc.)
5: have problems such as a low extraction rate and weak extract activity, which restrict the development and application of plant extracts.
6: Therefore, microwave, oscillation, and ultrasonication extraction methods have also been proposed.
7: The purpose of using the combined ultrasound- and microwave-assisted extraction (UMAE) technique for the extraction is to alternative conventional extraction techniques, because UMAE is inexpensive, simple, rapid, green and efficient.
8: Generally, UMAE will not affect the quality of essential oil extraction and the extraction yield was significantly increased via the UMAE method instead of conventional extraction methods 7  10. e.g.
9: UMAE was usually employed to extract essential oils, total flavonoids, dihydroquercetin etc.
10: from seed, flower, bark, xylem of plant 11  13.
11: As a viable extraction technique, this method combined with GC/MS or UPLC/MS can be used as a routine analysis strategy for essential oil in plant.
12: Due to the rapid development of analytical instruments and sample preparation techniques, floral fragrance research has gradually intensified.
13: By the detection and analysis of HS-SPME/GCMS, the VOCs of many common plant flowers have been initially identified 14.
