0: The invasive plant  Ageratina adenophora (Sprengel) R. M. King and H. Robinson is a perennial herb of the Compositae family that is native to Central America.
1: The spread of  A. adenophora is considered to be a severe problem in more than 30 countries in Asia, Africa, Oceania, Europe and North America (Datta et al.,  2019).
2: In China, this weed has been reported to reduce the diversity of native plant species, crop production in agricultural land and forage production in pastures; moreover, this weed is poisonous to domestic animals (Poudel et al.,  2019).
3: Therefore, understanding the mechanisms of successful weed invasion is ecologically and economically important.
4: Previous results have indicated that the roles of soil biota in the establishment of  A. adenophora are habitat dependent, for example, Niu et al.
5: ( 2007) indicated that soil biota collected from mixed evergreenbroadleafdeciduous forests had strong inhibitory effects on  A. adenophora growth; however, Xiao et al.
6: ( 2014) indicated that sterilization had no significant effect on  A. adenophora biomass growing in soils collected from a tropical botanical garden.
7: Nevertheless, once established,  A. adenophora can change the soil biota to promote its own growth (Niu et al.,  2007), for example, by increasing the abundance of nitrogenfixing bacteria (Xu et al.,  2012) and root endophytic  Enterobacter bacteria (Chen et al.,  2019).
8: Moreover,  A. adenophora has also been reported to host various foliar fungi, including pathogens (Poudel et al.,  2019; Zhou et al.,  2010) and endophytes (Mei et al.,  2014, Fang et al.,  2019).
9: In addition, foliar herbivory was frequently observed in our routine investigations.
10: These data suggest the occurrence of potential aboveground and belowground biotic interactions with  A. adenophora, which remain to be characterized.
11: In this study, we designed three independent experiments to determine the effect of a foliar fungus,  Colletotrichum, on the growth performance of  A. adenophora in different soil conditions, as well as the functional responses of  A. adenophora to aboveground pathogenic fungi and herbivores.
