0: Marine environments continue to be exposed to oil pollution events as oil and gas production activities continue to expand [ 1].
1: Accidental and operational releases of crude oil remain a threat to marine biota, including fish, therefore monitoring activities play an important role.
2: Atlantic cod ( Gadus morhua) is a commonly used fish species in environmental monitoring in the North Atlantic [ 2].
3: For this species, the adverse effects of oil exposure, in particular, the damage caused by petrogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)  a class of compounds found in crude oil and oil products  is well documented [ 3,  4].
4: In addition, several biomarkers of petrogenic PAH exposure are well-established for this species [ 3,  5].
5: PAHs found in crude oil are well-known carcinogens due to their ability to form DNA and protein adducts following their primary metabolism in the liver [ 6,  7].
6: Liver enzymes initiate the excretion process of PAHs by transforming them into more water soluble conjugated metabolites, which are sometimes more toxic than their corresponding parent PAHs [ 8,  9].
7: The conjugated metabolites are then excreted via the bile into the intestinal tract.
8: The fate of conjugated metabolites in the intestinal tract and their effect on the gut microbiota is still under investigation.
9: It is generally assumed that conjugated biliary PAH metabolites either (1) pass through the gut unchanged and are eliminated via feces, or (2) are hydrolyzed spontaneously, reabsorbed through the intestinal wall and transported to the liver via the portal vein (enterohepatic recirculation) [ 10].
10: Considering the metabolic diversity of the gut microbiota, conjugated metabolites could also undergo biotransformation as a result of bacterial activity in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract [ 11].
11: Moreover, there might be mechanisms that exacerbate the toxic effects of pollutants by for example reactivating conjugated biliary metabolites [ 12].
12: Studies on the potential interactions between biliary metabolites and gut microbiota in fish are scarce, and most microbiota studies have so far been carried out on mammals, e.g., mice and humans [ 13,  14].
13: Their results indicate that gut microbiota can indeed be actively involved in biotransformation of environmental pollutants.
14: Such biotransformation may influence the detoxification process and alter the fate of xenobiotic compounds.
15: At the same time, these pollutants can in return influence the composition of the gut microbiota.
