0: There have been reports on the anti-trichomonad properties of plant essential oils and compounds isolated from the oils, as illustrated with the following examples.
1: An Australian study by Moon, Wilkinson [ 70] describes the inhibition of three protozoan pathogens by  Lavandula essential oils.
2: Concentrations of< 1% of  L. angustifolia and  L.  intermedia oils completely eliminated the human pathogens  T. vaginalis and  Giardia duodenalis and the fish pathogen  Hex amita inflata.
3: Cheikh-Ali, Adiko [ 71] reported that the essential oil from rhizomes of  Aframomum sceptrum (Zingiberaceace) exhibited remarkable antiprotozoal activity against  T. vaginalis with an IC 50 value of 0.12 L/mL and a minimum lethal concentration (MLC) value of 1.72 L/mL.
4: The major constituents of the oil determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis are -pinene (12.7%), caryophyllene oxide (10.0%), and cyperene (6.0%).
5: The oil also inhibited the growth of Gram-positive bacteria.
6: Dai, Peng [ 18] found that  A. tsao-ko essential oil used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat stomach disorders and throat infections and its bioactive compound geraniol (Fig.
7: 2), widely used as a fragrance ingredient, were also effective against  T. vaginalis.
8: The MLC of the oil for one strain of the pathogen was 44.97 g/mL and the IC 50 value, 22.49 g/mL.
9: These values were approximately double with a second protozoal strain.
10: The corresponding value for geraniol, which constitutes 13.69% of the oil, are 342.96 g/mL and 171.48 g/mL, respectively.
11: These results show that geraniol showed much lower potency than the oil, suggesting that, in addition to geraniol, some of the 24 compounds identified in the oil by GC-MS must contribute to its potency.
12: Additional studies showed that the oil induced severe morphological changes in the cells.
13: These included partially damaged cytoplasmic membranes, resulting in leakage of cytoplasmic content that presumably led to cell death.
14: Aminou, Alam-Eldin [ 21] discovered that the oil from the seeds of the  Nigella sativa plant (black seed, black cumin spice) native to Egypt induced cell damage with cytoplasmic and nuclear destruction in the ultrastructure of  T. vaginalis trophozoites, detected by transmission electron microscopy, that is similar to the effect induced by metronidazole, suggesting that the oil might be a useful therapeutic alternative to the synthetic drug.
15: The alcoholic extract was less active than the oil.
16: The authors speculate that the anti-trichomonad effect might be associated with high content of poly-unsaturated linoleic, oleic, and palmitic acids in the oil.
17: Akram Khan and Afzal [ 72] reported that  Nigella sativa seeds contain bioactive alkaloids.
18: Another study by Shaikh, Aaqil [ 73] describes the use of a molecular docking method that demonstrated that extracts of plant  Apamarga Kshara, known to ameliorate cervical erosion in humans, interacted with the amino acid residues of the  T. vaginalis enzyme carbamate kinase, suggesting that the enzyme might present a biological marker for the inhibition of the trichomoniasis.
