0: In June 2013, the United Nations projected that the world population will reach 9.6 billion by 2050 from the current 7.4 billion [ 1].
1: The world population growth increases the food demand.
2: It is estimated that oil crops must increase by 133 million tonnes to reach 282 million tonnes in order to cover the demand.
3: Four oil crops (oil palm, soybean, rape, and sunflower) account for 83% of the world production [ 2].
4: The major oilseed production areas are in the temperate zones.
5: America and Europe together account for more than 60% of the world production of oil seeds, whereas a substantially smaller production (<5%) comes from tropical areas such as Africa, Malaysia, and Indonesia [ 3].
6: The most important tropical oil crops include coconut, oil palm, groundnut, and cotton.
7: However, there are many other traditional oil seeds in tropical Africa that are underexploited, as the nutritional and economic values are poorly known.
8: These oils come from numerous botanical families including the Anacardiaceae in West Africa.
9: The Anacardiaceae family comprises about 70 genera and 600 species including oil and protein rich species, for example,  Pistacia vera L.,  Sclerocarya birrea (A.
10: Rich.)
11: Hochst., and  Lannea microcarpa Engl.
12: et K. Krause [ 4 6].
13: Lannea kerstingii Engl.
14: et K. Krause, a close relative to  Lannea microcarpa, is widely distributed in the sub-Saharan region from Senegal to Cameroon.
15: Oil from  L. kerstingii seeds is traditionally used in Burkina Faso as food, medicine, and for skin care [ 7].
16: However, the proximate, fatty acid, amino acid, vitamin, sterol, and mineral compositions, which reflect nutritional value of seeds, and the physicochemical properties such as melting point, refractive index, iodine value, peroxide value,  p-anisidine value, acid value, saponification value,  p-anisidine value, and oxidative stability, which determine the uses and applications of seed oils, have been not yet analyzed for  L. kerstingii seeds and seed oil.
17: Therefore, this study investigated the chemical composition, the physicochemical properties, and nutritional value of  L. kerstingii seeds.
18: The work aims to explore potential uses of  L. kerstingii seeds and seed oil to promote their consumption in local communities and their trade to international markets.
