0: The pure culture of  B.  gigantea (BGLMS-1 in the collection of Dr. Philip Harmon, University of Florida) used in this research was originally isolated from  Microstegium as part of a previous study and had been stored as previously described [ 35].
1: Bipolaris gigantea was revived from 4C storage by placing colonized, 3 to 5 mm diameter, filter paper pieces on half-strength V8 media agar plates.
2: Fungal colonies grew under 12 h day and night fluorescent light at 26C for one week and were transferred to new half-strength V8 media agar plates.
3: Conidia were harvested from fungal colonies by flooding plates with 10 ml of sterile deionized water with 0.1% Tween 20 (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA).
4: The resulting conidia suspension was filtered through a layer of cheese cloth, and conidia were quantified with a Spencer Bright-Line hemocytometer (American Optical Company, Buffalo, NY, USA).
5: The concentration of inoculum was adjusted to 15,000 conidia/ml and applied to plants with a Passche H-202S airbrush sprayer (Kenosha, WI, USA).
6: Inoculations occurred six days after planting the native species with the  Microstegium, and half of the pots were sprayed until runoff with the spore suspension while the other half were sprayed with the same volume of sterile deionized water with 0.1% Tween 20 (i.e., mock inoculation control).
7: To encourage infection, we placed a paper towel wet with deionized water in each pot and sealed each pot with a transparent plastic bag secured with a rubber band.
8: The plastic bags and paper towels were removed after seven days [ 44].
9: Plants were watered daily before and after they were contained in the plastic bags.
10: Ten days after bag removal, all plants were sprayed with Garden Safe insecticidal soap (Bridgeton, MO, USA) to help control aphids and thrips.
11: Pots occupied two neighboring greenhouse benches and were haphazardly rearranged weekly to avoid confounding spatial positions with experimental treatments.
12: Bipolaris gigantea isolations were in accordance with the United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Plant Protection and Quarantine (USDA APHIS PPQ) permit no.
13: PP526P-18-01688.
14: Collections from BONWR were performed under a special use permit administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
