0: Most grapefruit EO samples used for bioactivity studies were made by cold-pressing, steam distillation, or hydrodistillation methods.
1: Cold-pressing is the predominant method to extract most citrus peel EOs, including grapefruit EOs.
2: In commercial practice, grapefruitis processed to obtain juice and other by-products.
3: EO is one of the primary grapefruit by-products.
4: Large-scale grapefruit EO is mainly prepared by a cold-pressing method based on John Bean FoodTech (JBT) juice extractors and its technology, which is used by 75% of the worlds citrus juice production [ 27].
5: The juice and EO are extracted separately and simultaneously.
6: The EO was extracted by mechanical rupturing of the oil sacs in the flavedo, expressing the oil as an aqueous emulsion from which it is separated by centrifuging.
7: The EO recovery is a physical separation process and no heat is applied throughout the whole extraction procedure.
8: The operation temperature is much lower than in the distillation procedure.
9: Thus, the EOs will have characteristics that are closer to those of the essence present in the grapefruit matrix.
10: Large scale production, low cost and the aroma characteristic remaining are the big advantages of the cold-pressing method.
11: However, cold-pressed grapefruit oil contains waxes, pesticide residues, coumarins, carotenoids and other nonvolatile components [ 28, 29, 30], some of them also have good bioactivities that may cause bias in bioactivity research of EO.
12: Cesar et al.
13: (2009) found that furanocoumarins isolated from grapefruit peel oil showed potent in vitro inhibitory activity against intestinal cytochrome P450 3A4, an enzyme involved in grapefruit/drug interactions in humans [ 28].
14: Steam distillation or hydrodistillation was carried out at relatively high temperature which may cause degradation of some thermal sensitive molecules [ 18, 31].
15: To avoid such problems, and find a new way to use the commercial available cold-pressed grapefruit EO in biochemistry and pharmachutical fields, we used a molecular distillation method to prepare grapefruit oil samples for our bioactivity tests.
