0: Further, it is important to note that FPMs have a significant role in food industries, starting with the collection of the raw food materials from the originating source (agricultural fields or animal farms) to processing, transportation, storage, and finally, consumption by the consumers.
1: It is important to note that the food products provide a dynamic environment, where significant biological processes are ongoing.
2: Hence, it is an extremely challenging task to design FPMs as these products are expected to retard or prevent the process of physiochemical degradation to keep the foods safe until consumption.
3: In other words, modern FPMs are expected to considerably increase the shelf-life of the products.
4: In this regard, food scientists are proposing the employment of active FPMs (AFPMs).
5: The use of AFPMs can help control or prevent the microbial spoilage of the food products by preventing the growth of pathogenic foodborne microorganisms (e.g.,  Salmonella,  Listeria) during the storage period, thereby not only enhancing the shelf-life of the food products but also keeping their quality and safety intact.
6: Such AFPMs have entrapped antimicrobial compounds within their structures.
7: The antimicrobial compounds can either be from natural or synthetic sources.
8: Due to the instances related to the resistance to the synthetic antimicrobial compounds, the trend has shifted to the use of natural antimicrobial compounds.
9: Some of the natural antimicrobial compounds include essential oils (EOs), organic acids, enzymes, antimicrobial peptides, and certain biopolymers (e.g., chitosan).
10: The use of these natural antimicrobial agents for the development of the AFPMs has now become one of the most popular strategies across the globe.
11: However, the use of the antimicrobial compounds in excess amounts may significantly affect the sensorial properties of the food products.
12: Hence, the incorporation of these compounds within the AFPMs requires optimization that is achieved by extensive research.
