0: The oxidative stress (as the results of elevated intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS)) along with redox signaling play a substantial role in regulating normal wound healing under pathological conditions [ 1].
1: ROS are centrally involved and having a significant role in the orchestration of the normal wound-healing response acting as cellular messengers to many immunocytes and non-lymphoid cells [ 1, 2].
2: They also directly damage microbes that invade tissues and are known to play a pivotal role in regulating healing at low concentrations [ 2].
3: The normal healing response begins when the tissue is injured.
4: Afterwards, an inflammatory response manifests itself and the collagen level starts to increase via cells below the dermis.
5: During the wound-healing response, a number of cells used these radicals, including platelets, macrophages, fibroblasts, endothelial cells and keratinocytes [ 3].
6: Wound healing is a complex biological process, which consists of a well-ordered progression of events allowing restoring the integrity of damaged tissue and homeostasis after injury via the inflammatory phase, proliferation stages and tissue remodeling.
7: Thereby, redox signaling and increased oxidative stress are responsible for impaired wound repair.
8: The hydrogen peroxide (H 2O 2) produced by dismutation of superoxide acts as intracellular messengers with low concentrations (100250 M) by stimulating key phases of wound healing including cell recruitment, production of cytokines and angiogenesis, however excessive and uncontrolled amount of ROS generation have deleterious effects by accelerating the non-healing wounds [ 4, 5, 6, 7, 8].
9: The antioxidants have been applied to remove the deleterious detrimental effects of ROS, by donating their own electrons, and therefore preventing them from capturing electrons from other important molecules, such as DNA, proteins and lipids [ 1].
10: Thus, various medicinal herbs and plants have been reported to offer promising biosources of bioactive molecules with various biological properties such as antioxidant [ 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14], antimicrobial [ 10, 12, 13, 14, 15], antibiofilm [ 16, 17], antiquorum sensing [ 11, 17, 18] and antidiabetic [ 19].
11: On the other hand, several treatments are available for the wound management such as analgesics, antibiotics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, but most of them produce numerous unwanted side effects [ 8, 20].
12: Due to the emergence and spread resistance of microorganisms colonizing infections to antibiotics and synthetic drugs currently used in conventional wound healing cure, growing attention has been afforded to the search for natural wound healing agents.
13: Plant-based bioactive compounds have therefore been a potential source of antioxidants and healing agents, which have received a great deal of attention due to the increased of oxidative stress [ 21].
14: Their role is to induce rapid re-epithelialization of wounds with minimal scarring associated with potent antimicrobial effects [ 22].
15: Consequently, there is a need to use essential oil containing many bioactive compounds to discover new treatment options able to stimulate healing with antimicrobial potential to overcome the antimicrobial resistance and side effects.
16: Throughout the world, the estimated global pharmaceutical market in 2022 is $1.12 trillion, indicating the growing demand for pharmaceuticals by a huge percentage of population.
17: The Saudi market offers many wound care treatments, including  Piper cubeba, which has been used as a remedy by the local population for various medical purposes [ 23, 24].
18: Therefore, in light of the above facts and in the continuation of our investigations into  Piper cubeba essential oil (PCEO) with therapeutic properties and limited data on this spice, we have now studied for the first time the effects of its essential oil on wound healing and also its antimicrobial activities against a wide range of strains supported by in silico study.
