0: To account for potential spatial autocorrelation (or similarity between plots due to their proximity to each other) in invasive plant occurrence and abundance because of the vegetation sampling methods (blocks of nine 10m radius plots centered in each cell of a 120x120 m grid (see  Materials and Methods/Data Collection), all models included block as a random effect.
1: Plotting the model residuals indicated that the addition of block as a random effect removed the majority of the spatial autocorrelation from our models (Figures AD in  S1 Fig).
2: There was no significant spatial autocorrelation in model residuals of occurrence or abundance for  B.  thunbergii after the additional of block as a random effect (Morans I,  p > 0.05, Figures CD in  S1 Fig) and thus our results for these models are independent of spatial bias.
3: Addition of block to the occurrence and abundance models for  R.  multiflora accounted for spatial autocorrelation in plots 50 meters apart (Figures AB in  S1 Fig).
4: Plots that are closer than 50 meters to each other are within the same 120x120m block, so it is reasonable that addition of block as a random effect would not account for all spatial autocorrelation at smaller scales (Morans I,  p< 0.05, Figures AB in  S1 Fig).
5: The spatial autocorrelation within a block would primarily be of concern if  R.  multiflora was found in only one block for a given land-use category as that may suggest that  R.  multiflora was found more often due to some site characteristic of that block rather than its land-use history.
6: However,  R.  multiflora was found in multiple blocks for all land-use categories assessed ( S1 Table) suggesting that the observed differences in occurrence and abundance are not due to the remaining spatial autocorrelation in our models.
7: Further, impacts of spatial autocorrelation are primarily of concern in studies with small sample sizes [ 27].
8: Our samples sizes for both  R.  multiflora and  B.  thunbergii are comparable to or larger than similar studies which had sample sizes ranging from n = 28 to n = 188 [ 1][ 2][ 11][ 14][ 31].
9: Given our large sample sizes for both  R.  multiflora and  B.  thunbergii, the remaining spatial autocorrelation in our model residuals is unlikely to significantly impact our results.
