0: Nigella sativa, a member of Ranunculaceae family is commonly known as black seed.
1: N. sativa seed with a rich historical and religious background is the miracle curative herb for all ailments, except the death.
2: N. sativa seeds are used widely for extraction of fixed oil.
3: N. sativa seeds were used by Dioscorides as diuretic, emmenagogue, galactopoietic.
4: Avicenna in the Canon of Medicine used the black seed for stimulating the body's energy and helping recovery from fatigue and dispiritedness.
5: It was a remedy for coryza.
6: Frying the seeds in oil and putting in the lint and putting on forehead, relieves the headache.
7: Soaking the seeds in the vinegar for one night and crushing them and smelling was a remedy for chronic headache  9.
8: In Middle East countries,  N. sativa seed oil is used as antiseptic, local analgesic and for treatment of asthma, bronchitis, rheumatism and other inflammatory diseases  10.
9: Algerians take the roasted seeds with butter for cough, and with honey for colic, Arabians use its seed as lactagogue, soaking in rose oil as eye drops for eye infections.
10: Indian people use the seed tincture for anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia and fever or seed fixed oil in sesame oil for dermatosis.
11: N. sativa is anthelmintic, carminative, emmenagogue and stimulant in Ayurvedic.
12: Sniffing the cloth containing the mixture of  N. sativa seed with melted butter is used by Ethiopians for headache.
13: Indonesians combine  N. sativa seed with astringent medicines for abdominal disorders.
14: The seed extract is used for treatment of liver ailments.
15: The poultice seeds is used by Malayans for treatment of abscesses, headache, nasal ulcers, orchitis and rheumatism.
16: In North Africans, mixture of  N. sativa seed with honey is used as morning aperitif.
17: Unani Medicine consider the plant as abortifacient, diuretic, anthelmintic and emmenagogue and good treatment for cough, fever, jaundice, pulmonosis and sore eyes.
18: In Yemen, the seeds are used for hemorrhoids  11.
