0: Plant secondary metabolites play a recognized role in interactions between plants and their environment and they also act as defense chemicals [ 1].
1: Production of these compounds is very low (less than 1% dry weight) and mainly depends on the physiological and developmental stage of plants [ 2, 3].
2: Production and accumulation of metabolites by plants of the same species growing in different regions may be affected by environmental factors, so that such substances appear to act as a chemical interface between the plant and the surrounding environment [ 1, 4, 5].
3: Although secondary metabolites of medicinal and aromatic plants are commonly generated through genetic processes, their biosynthesis depends to a great extent on environmental factors, both abiotic (soil type, water availability, nutrient solubility, light, UV radiation, location, edaphic and seasonal variation, etc.)
4: and biotic, which affect growth parameters, essential oil yield and oil constituents [ 6, 7, 8, 9, 10].
5: Pirzard et al.
6: [ 11] indicated that irrigation regimes and field capacity affected the yield of dry chamomile flowers and essential oil percent and its composition.
7: Salamon et al.
8: [ 12] showed a strong impact of edaphic and seasonal variations on the composition of essential oil from chamomile originating from various parts of Iran.
9: Santoro et al.
10: [ 13] revealed that some vegetative parameters (shoot and root lengths, shoot fresh weight, root dry weight, etc.)
11: of peppermint increased upon exposure to volatile organic compounds from two different plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria ( Pseudomonas fluorescens and  Bacillus subtilis).
12: Besides, the authors showed that rhizobacterial volatile organic compounds impacted the formation of plant secondary compounds, finding a two-fold increase in the accumulation of essential oil from peppermint plants treated with  P. fluorescens, compared to  B. subtilis.
13: Guo et al.
14: [ 14] revealed some beneficial effects of colonization of peppermint roots by the fungus  Trichoderma viride as it elevated essential oil yield and composition.
