0: In tropical rainforests, access to and availability of natural resources are vital for the dietary diversity and food security of forest-dwelling societies.
1: The Congo Basin includes the largest tract of tropical rainforest in Africa.
2: This highly biodiverse region is inhabited by more than 30 million people, including forest-dwelling communities that strongly depend on their natural environment for their survival [ 1].
3: A wide variety of wild edible plant species (WEP) has been reported for the Congo Basin, among Bantu-speaking farmers and especially among hunter-gatherers that infrequently practice agriculture [ 2 6].
4: Local people harvest these wild food plants mainly for subsistence use within the household, but a substantial number of species is locally traded, and a few find their way to global markets [ 7,  8].
5: The cash income earned with the trade in non-timber forest products (NTFPs), important for improving livelihoods, can empower local communities [ 9].
6: Wild edible plants also provide a safety net in times of agricultural shortage and are thus essential for food security [ 9].
7: However, forest-dwelling societies in the Congo Basin are challenged by a decrease in access to and availability of wild food resources due to the increasing exploitation of the forests for commercial hardwood, precious minerals, and space for oil palm and rubber plantations [ 10,  11].
8: As a result of large-scale agricultural encroachment, logging, mining and hunting activities, the ecosystems of this region are under severe pressure [ 10,  12].
9: A recent survey estimated that just 70% of the standing forests of the Congo Basin remain fully intact [ 11].
10: Pressures on local resources have led to a decrease in local peoples access to the important wild plants and bushmeat, which contributes substantially to their diet and medicine [ 13,  14].
11: In Cameroon, for example, more than 60% of the top 23 timber species exported from the country also yield important NTFPs for local people.
12: A balanced approach is needed between tropical hardwood exploitation and the livelihoods of rural communities, for which the development and implementation of sustainable forest management plans are essential [ 9].
