0: Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infection of the respiratory system caused by single standard RNA viruses named as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
1: The disease appeared as a serious problem and the leading cause of death in human beings throughout the world.
2: The main source of different phytochemicals are plants, which helps in the development of new drugs against various ailments.
3: Islam is comprehensive religion and a complete code of life for Muslims.
4: The teaching of Islam, according to the Holy Quran and Hadith are universal for the benefit of humanity.
5: Islam believes that every ailment is from God and who made the disease definitely made its medication.
6: There is a complete guideline with regard to taking measures against infectious diseases such as quarantine and seeking medicinal treatment.
7: The research objective is to gather the knowledge of medicinal plants described in the Holy Quran or utilized by the Prophet (SAW) for the treatment of different ailments or advised to use them to boost immunity and strengthen the body.
8: Scientists across the globe have found these plants beneficial for many diseases and have antiviral potential.
9: In present study, the six plant species including   Olea europaea, Nigella sativa, Allium Sativum, Allium cepa, Zingiber officinale and   Cassia senna were selected which contain phytochemicals like Calcium Elenolate, Thymoquinone, S-Allylcysteine, Dipropyl Disulfide, Sesquiterpene, Monoterpene, Pelargonidin 3-Galactoside ion and Kaempferol.
10: The phytochemicals monoterpene (from   Zingiber officinale) shows best interaction with target proteins RdRP, 3CLPro, ACE2.
11: Calcium Elonate (from olive) bonds with 3CLPro, ACE2 and Kemoferol and Pelargomidine (from Senna Makki) bonds with RdRP, ACE2.
12: The ligands show a unique set of intersections i.e.
13: hydrogen bonding, and alkyl interaction.
14: These medicinal plants can be utilized immediately for the treatment of COVID-19 as their safety is already established.
15: This treatment can enhance recovery when combined with other treatments.
16: Furthermore, the screening of bioactive compounds or phytochemicals found in these plants can be utilized to design new therapeutic drug to treat COVID-19 pandemic.
