0: Nutmeg ( Myristica fragrans) is a condiment that is well known for the flavor it adds to food.
1: Additionally, it is a famous traditional Chinese medicine.
2: M. fragrans (MF) is widely cultivated in Asia, including Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, and China.
3: Traditional functions of MF include its use as a remedy for headaches, fever, astringent bowel and as an antidiarrheal compound.
4: MF has many biological activities, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, anti-carcinogenic, and radio-protective activities [ 4, 5, 6].
5: MF has essential and fatty oils, resins, and wax.
6: The concentrations of essential oils in MF are approximately 515%, and its major components are terpene hydrocarbons (camphene,  p-cymene, limonene, myrcene, phellandrene, pinene, sabinene, and terpinene), oxygenated terpenes (geraniol, linalool, and terpineol), and aromatic ethers (myristicin, elemicin, safrole, eugenol, and eugenol derivatives) [ 7, 8].
7: Safrole is a colorless oil with antibacterial activities.
8: Myristicin exhibits various pharmacological activities, such as anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and antiproliferative activities.
9: However, safrole and myristicin, the food-borne alkenyl-benzene structures, pose potential risks to human health as they have been found to induce rodent liver tumors at high doses.
10: This occurrence may be due to 1-hydroxymetabolites, which are converted to carcinogenic 1-sulfoxymetabolites by sulfotransferases (SULTs) [ 9].
11: Safrole or 1-hydroxysafrole has been revealed as a carcinogen via the co-administration of the SULT inhibitor pentachlorophenol (PCP) in mice, which resulted in a reduction of hepatic tumor formation upon long-term dietary administration.
12: Therefore, it is recognized as a weak carcinogen by the US government [ 10].
13: Several studies have reported that a high content of myristicin is poisonous and results in hallucinatory side effects owing to the two metabolites of myristicin, 5-allyl-1-methoxy-2,3-dihydroxybenzene and 1-hydroxymyristicin.
14: These metabolites were produced in rat liver microsomes and could be identified in rat urine [ 11].
