0: Female healthy BALB/c mice were infected in the right hind footpad with 5  10 6 stationary-phase promastigotes of L. amazonensis by the subcutaneous route, which was identified as day 0.
1: Then, four weeks p.i., the animals were randomly distributed into three groups of eight mice each, and two groups of mice were treated with EO-ML or GTM at 30 mg/kg.
2: Products were applied every four days to a total of five doses by the intralesional route.
3: The third group of animals was considered to be the control group that received no treatment.
4: In parallel, from four weeks p.i.
5: until 12 weeks p.i, the animals were daily observed, body weight and the lesion size were weekly supervised using a technical bascule (SCALTEC, Gottingen, Germany) and a caliper to measure footpad swelling and lesion diameter, respectively.
6: In these cases, a variation of body weight, as well as an average of lesion size (mean of the differences between infected and uninfected footpads), was calculated with respect to week 4 p.i.
7: for each group.
8: In addition, the parasite burden was determined on weeks 6 and 12 p.i.
9: through the culture microtitration method in 96-well plates [ 51].
10: Briefly, three animals selected at random from each group were killed by cervical dislocation, a sample of subcutaneous tissues from the infected area was excised, weighed, and homogenized in 4 mL of Schneiders medium.
11: Then, a four-fold serial dilution was carried out in a 96-well plates in duplicate under sterile conditions and incubated at 26 C. After seven days of incubation, the plates were examined under an inverted microscope (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) at 400 to select the last dilution that contained at least one mobile parasite, which was defined as the final titer.
12: The parasite burden was calculated as the geometric mean of reciprocal titers/weight of tissue sample multiplied by 400.
13: All of the experimental procedures involving animals were conducted in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, Eighth Edition, which was approved by the Ethics Committee (CEI-IPK 14-12), Havana, Cuba.
