0: We experimentally measured the flammability of plant shoots (i.e., plant stems) of species from three vegetation groups, namely IAPs, fynbos and thicket.
1: Fine fuels such as plant shoots (hereafter samples) are the primary carriers or vectors of fire spread ( Murray, Hardstaff & Phillips, 2013).
2: Our experiments were thus focused on plant shoots, with one stem constituting one sample.
3: Sampling was done over 21 occasions (FebruaryNovember 2018) that were specifically selected to represent varying fire weather conditions.
4: On each occasion, we collected two live plant samples of 30 species across three vegetation groups (10 species per vegetation group; details in  Table S1) common in the study area.
5: One sample was used for flammability experiments, while the other was used for live fuel moisture measurements.
6: For each species, samples of approximately 70 cm in length that were representative of the fuel structure characteristic of the species were sourced.
7: On each sampling occasion, samples from all 30 species were collected and burnt to ensure that flammability was measured under comparable conditions.
8: Sample collection either started at 09:00 and subsequent burning at 12:00 or at 11:00 and 14:00 (respectively) to incorporate additional variation in fire weather conditions.
9: Samples were kept in closed plastic containers after collection prior to burning, and burning was completed within four hours of sample collection to minimise moisture loss.
10: The order in which samples of different species were burnt was also randomised among the different burning occasions to not consistently expose particular species to longer periods of moisture loss prior to burning.
11: For each occasion, the Canadian fire weather index was computed based on the temperature, relative humidity, rainfall (over the past 24 h), and wind speed ( Van Wagner & Forest, 1987) at the time that burning commenced.
12: This index integrates drought and other atmospheric effects that are relevant to fire behavior and fuel moisture, and it was shown to be the best performing fire danger index in Mediterranean ecosystems ( Sirca et al., 2018).
13: The input weather measures were obtained from a weather station located on the George Campus of Nelson Mandela University (Saasveld NMMU CW373 on the Vital Weather online platform:  www.vitalweather.co.za) where the experimental burning was conducted.
