0: The fast-growing demand for plant-based foods and food additives, and the current rapid lifestyles resulted in changes of dietary habits that have notably impacted on the growth of interest in powdered food and spray drying technology.
1: Numerous food ingredients and food mixtures could be encapsulated, such as flavors, oils, lipids, emulsions, acidulants, antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, sweeteners, preservatives, colorants, proteins, peptides, and probiotics [ 3].
2: The emulsions are spray-dried to extend the period of stability and durability of vegetable and animal oils, preventing against oxidation caused by deteriorating factors (such as humidity, light, and temperature) and destabilization.
3: Destabilization can be the result of a variety of physicochemical mechanisms, such as gravitational separation, flocculation, coalescence, and Ostwald ripening [ 4].
4: An emulsion is a thermodynamically unstable complex system.
5: To increase the stability of emulsions, various emulsifiers are applied [ 5].
6: In case of the emulsions spray drying process, one of the pivotal factors is the type of wall material.
7: It embraces the core material to protect valuable and bioactive compounds, such as polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) or polyphenols.
8: Moreover, the type of wall material influences flowability, bulk and tapped densities, powder solubility, and their redispersion ability.
9: The production of oil-in-water emulsions is necessary to disperse the PUFA-rich oils in an aqueous phase, to be fed into the spray-drying equipment [ 6].
10: Encapsulated emulsions with valuable oils, such a flaxseed oil, could be exploited to fill the -3 fatty acids gap in vegetarian diet.
11: The food industries are constantly exploring various raw materials, new technologies, and processes, to evolve innovative functional products.
12: Animal-derived ingredients are widely exploited, although they are considered less environment-friendly, as compared to plant-based ingredients [ 5].
13: Additionally, the management of the oil industry by-products that meet the criteria of zero waste economy is very important, because a substantial quantities of press cakes and residues are available.
14: Based on the reports of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the world production of oilseeds in 2018/2019 was 600.47 million metric tons [ 7].
15: According to Ancuta and Sonia, the utilization of oil cakes can be a sustainable way to reduce waste production, as well as contribute to the development of new, cheap, and nutrient-rich products [ 8].
