0: Background Different effects of cinnamon and its oil in traditional medicine in the treatment of diseases, including gastrointestinal diseases, were reported.
1: The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cinnamon oil (   Cinnamomum zeylanicum) in patients with functional dyspepsia in a double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial.
2: Methods Soft gelatin capsule was made using the rotary die process, and the final capsule was standardized based on its cinnamaldehyde amount and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method.
3: Sixty-four patients with symptomatic functional dyspepsia were randomized to receive cinnamon oil soft capsule (   n = 29) or sesame oil soft capsule as placebo (   n = 35) for 6 weeks.
4: The primary efficacy variable was the sum score of the patient's gastrointestinal symptom (fivepoint scale).
5: Secondary variables were the scores of each dyspeptic symptom including severity of vomiting, sickness, nausea, bloating, abdominal cramps, early satiety, acidic eructation/heartburn, loss of appetite, retrosternal discomfort, and epigastric pain/upper abdominal pain, as well as any reported adverse events.
6: Results The results showed that, after 6 weeks of treatment, the cinnamon oil and placebo groups significantly decreased the total dyspepsia score compared to the baseline at the endpoint (   P< 0.001).
7: However, there was no significant difference between the cinnamon oil and placebo groups in terms of the baseline and endpoint values of the outcome variables (   P=0.317 and    P=0.174, respectively).
8: Two patients in the cinnamon oil group complained of rashes, and three patients in the placebo group complained of nausea.
9: Conclusion This study showed significant improvements in gastrointestinal symptom score in both treatment and placebo groups.
10: However, there was no significant difference between the cinnamon oil and sesame oil groups in terms of the baseline and endpoint values of the outcome variables.
11: This study was registered as    https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/IRCT20170802035460N2, 29 December 2017, in the Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials with    https://www.IRCT.ir.
