0: The antimicrobial activity of the liquid and vapor phase of Eos was determined by the broth microdilution volatilization method [ 35].
1: The experiments were carried out in 96-well microtiter plates with one well volume of 400 L. The test is designed for the testing of 6 essential oils in total.
2: For this study, we tested only 2 essential oils, and different samples were in other wells.
3: The plates were covered with wooden plates and clamped to prevent vapor phase leakage.
4: The edge wells were left blank to avoid the edge effect.
5: First, essential oil samples were prepared as follows: approximately 2 L of EOs was added to corresponding amount of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) at a concentration of 1%, then further diluted in the corresponding broth to initial concentration.
6: Then, the antibiotic was prepared at an initial concentration of 4 gmL 1.
7: In the first part of the experiment, 30 L of agar was pipetted onto the plate lid and inoculated with 5 L of bacterial suspension for vapor phase testing.
8: In the second part (liquid phase assay), 100 L of buffered Mueller-Hinton broth was pipetted into the wells.
9: Each well had a final volume of 100 L. Seven two-fold diluted concentrations of samples starting at a concentration of 1024 gmL 1 were prepared for each essential oil in one row.
10: A positive and negative control of bacterial growth was prepared in the first two columns.
11: In the last column, 6 two-fold diluted concentrations of antibiotic starting at 4 gmL 1 were prepared.
12: Finally, all wells except the negative control were inoculated with 5 L of bacterial suspension.
13: Plates were closed, fixed and incubated at 37 C for 24 h. After incubation, minimal inhibitory concentrations of EOs were evaluated by the visual assessment of bacterial growth after the coloring of a metabolically active bacterial colony with thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide dye (MTT; Sigma Aldrich, Prague, Czech Republic).
14: A total of 25 L of 600 gmL 1 dye was applied to the lid and each well of the plate and equilibrated for 10 min.
15: The color changed from yellow (dead cells) to purple (live cells).
16: Thereafter, the MICs were recorded.
17: All experiments were performed in triplicate in three independent experiments.
18: The results were expressed as the median of minimal inhibition concentration of the antimicrobial agent values.
