0: Bacteria strains isolated from the marine environment  Aeromonas caviae, Aeromonas hydrophila, Enterococcus faecalis, Klebsiella pneumoniae and  Providencia stuartii were gently provided by the Laboratory of Microbiology of the Water Quality Control Program at the Federal University of Maranhao.
1: Water samples were aseptically collected from approximately 30 cm below the water surface of the Jansen lagoon, Maranhao Brazil (latitude 2.499629, longitude 44.301211).
2: Then, the samples were transported to the Microbiology Laboratory of the Federal University of Maranhao in isothermal boxes containing ice to perform the identification.
3: To  Aeromonas isolation, successive decimal dilutions of water samples (10 1 to 10 7) were prepared in alkaline peptone water (APA), with subsequent distribution of 1 mL aliquots in five series of five tubes containing tryptic soy broth (TSB Broth) and 0.1 mL in plates containing the selective medium, agar gelatin phosphate salt (GSP Agar) (duplicates), both with 20 g/mL of ampicillin, an antibiotic used as an inhibitor of the accompanying microbiota of  Aeromonas.
4: Colonies suspected of being  Aeromonas were seeded in tilted BD trypticase soy agar (TSA agar) tubes, followed by incubation at 28 C for 24 h. After, the cultures on TSA agar were subjected to biochemical tests of oxidase, catalase, gas production from glucose for species identification, indole production, O/129 resistance, amino acid decarboxylation (test on triple sugar agar and ironTSI agar), motility: nitrate reduction, esculine hydrolysis, VogesProskauer (VP) assay, carbohydrate fermentation and growth at 3% and 6% sodium chloride.
5: To Enterobacteriaceae isolation and identification of  Klebsiella pneumoniae and  Providencia stuartii in the water samples, initially, 25 mL of each sample were homogenized in 225 mL of brain and heart infusion broth (BHI broth) and incubated in a bacteriological oven at 37 C for three hours.
6: After the incubation period, the entire inoculum was transferred to 250 mL of broth for  Escherichia coli and incubated at 37 C for 24 h. Isolation was performed using selective and differential media, methylene blue eosin agar (EMB agar) and MacConkey sorbitol agar (MCS agar).
7: For the identification of the species, initially five colonies were selected from the selective culture media, small colonies with metallic green or black without gloss in EMB agar and those of intense pink color (positive sorbitol) and yellow (negative sorbitol) in MCS agar.
8: Then, the colonies were isolated in tubes containing TSA agar inclined with subsequent incubation at 37 C for 24 h. Biochemical identification was performed using conventional tests: indole, simmons citrate, methyl red, VP, malonate, carbohydrate fermentationsorbitol, rhamnose, mannitol, arabinose, inositol and raffinose, decarboxylation of amino acids lysine and ornithine, motility and H 2S production in sulfide indole motility (SIM) agar [ 40] and by the API  20 E system.
9: For  Enterococcus research, 9 mL of each sample were diluted in 90 mL of buffered peptide water and incubated for 24 h/35 C. Subsequently dilutions (10 1 to 10 7) and the highest dilution were plated on M- Enterococcus agar and incubated at 35 C for 48 h. Brick red colonies were inoculated on TSI agar.
10: Tubes that showed suggestive characteristics were analyzed by acid ramp, acid-base, H 2S (-), catalase, oxidase, 6% NaCl, glucose and esculin tests, and by the API  20 E system.
