0: Listeriosis caused by  Listeria monocytogenes is still a rare disease in humans; however, due to high pathogenicity, the need for hospitalization and high mortality, especially among the elderly, it is one of the most dangerous foodborne diseases [ 1, 2].
1: In the years 20092018, an increase in listeriosis in the EU/EEA was observed [ 3].
2: High-risk foods due to the presence of  L. monocytogenes include ready-to-eat (RTE) products, particularly RTE smoked and gravad fish, heat-treated meat and soft and semi-soft cheese.
3: Thus far, fruits and vegetables have been classified as low risk products [ 3, 4, 5, 6, 7].
4: However, currently, foodborne outbreak statistics show that there is an increasing trend in fresh-cut produce and associated outbreaks mostly caused by such bacterial agents as  Listeria monocytogenes,  Salmonella spp.
5: and  Escherichia coli O157:H7 [ 8, 9].
6: Fresh vegetables are foods with a short shelf life, so there is a need to optimize moderate processing and storage [ 10, 11].
7: Among natural preservatives are plant essential oils, which can be used to disinfect minimally processed vegetables [ 12].
8: Essential oils from spice plants have long been used in the food industry as flavorings in food and drink.
9: Essential oils also have a number of biological activities, including antimicrobial, antioxidant, cytotoxic, anti-inflammatory and insecticidal [ 13].
10: Even a small addition of essential oils to minimally processed vegetables can enrich them culinarily.
11: In addition, essential oils with strong antimicrobial activity can improve the microbiological safety of these products [ 14].
12: It was found that 0.3% and 0.5% cinnamon oil was the most effective against  Salmonella enterica serotype Newport on organic leafy greens [ 15], and marjoram essential oil at 0.5% concentration showed disinfection capacity of multidrug-resistant  Salmonella enterica serovar Schwarzengrund in lettuce [ 14].
13: Additionally, oregano oil effectively reduced levels of total mesophilic microorganisms in fresh leaf lettuce and radish sprouts [ 16].
14: Tetraclinis articulata essential oils can be used as a potential source of fungicides to protect stored tomatoes from pathogens and saprophytic fungi [ 17].
15: However, the disadvantage of essential oils in food production, limiting their widespread use, is the intense odor and taste, not always favorably affecting the sensory characteristics of products.
16: Therefore, in the production of food, essential oils are often used in high dilutions, which in turn may prove ineffective in microbiological food protection.
17: In order to preserve the benefits of using essential oils (culinary and antimicrobial) in the production of low-processed vegetables, combinations of essential oils in reduced concentrations are used, while it is necessary to select such a combination for a specific food product [ 18].
18: In the study presented by Lv et al.
19: [ 19], it was shown that combined selected Eos, e.g., oreganobasil, basilbergamot, oreganobergamot and oreganoperilla, were considered antimicrobial agents with higher efficacy compared to EOs used alone.
20: Furthermore, this study also suggested that combinations of EOs could minimize application concentrations and consequently reduce any adverse sensory impact in food.
