0: The genus  Pittosporum forms part of the Pittosporaceae family and includes 200 species which are distributed in the temperate and hot zone of the Earth.
1: Pittosporum species have been used in folk medicine of many countries in the world.
2: P. glabratum from Chine has been used for the treatment of hypertension [ 5] and the bark of  P. neelgherrense as antivenom [ 6].
3: P. undulatum from Portugal has been used to repair muscles [ 7].
4: Australian people used  P. phylliraeoides to treat sprains and eczema [ 8].
5: This genus provides an excellent source of essential oil components such as monoterpenes, aliphatic hydrocarbons, sesquiterpenes among others compounds.
6: Plant  P. tobira discovered by the Europeans, is about 23 m high, the leaves are dark green, flowers have a smell similar to orange flowers and the black seeds are enclosed within the encapsulated fruits.
7: Previous studies on the composition of  P. tobira essential oils obtained by hydrodistillation procedure, have indicated the presence of  -pinene as the major component of the flowers for species growing in Iran [ 9].
8: This plant has been demonstrated to possess many pharmaceutical properties.
9: Moon and Park [ 10], reported its protective effects against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity.
10: Moreover, El Dib et al.
11: [ 11], determined that the n-butanol fraction from  P. tobira leaves possess antimicrobial activity and cytoprotective effects against breast carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma and colon carcinoma cancer cell lines.
12: However, data on the antioxidant activities of seed essential oils from this plant are insufficient.
13: Hence, the aim of the present research is to determine nutritional value, phenolic compound and biological activities of  P. tobira methanolic extract.
14: The aroma compounds composition of  P. tobira seeds were also identified by headspace solid phase microextraction and hydrodistillation coupled to gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry and their antioxidant and anti-hemolytic capacities were studied.
