0: The antibacterial assay was assessed using Gram-positive bacteria,  Bacillus subtilis,  Clavibacter michiganensis,  Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens, and  Staphylococcus aureus and Gram-negative bacteria,  Xanthomonas citri,  Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and  Escherichia coli.
1: Clavibacter michiganensis,  Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens,  Xanthomonas citri, and  Agrobacterium tumefaciens were supplied by the Department of Plant Protection, Shiraz university, and Bacillus subtilis,  Staphylococcus aureus, and  Escherichia coli were obtained from Institute of Biotechnology, Shiraz University.
2: The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the essential oils was determined by nutrient broth micro-dilution assay [ 49].
3: Bacterial species were cultured at 37 C for 18 h into a nutrient broth medium on a shaker and their density was measured at OD 600 using a spectrophotometer.
4: The EOs were dissolved in sterile nutrient broth medium containing 5% dimethyl sulfoxide and 2.5% tween 80 and the serial two-fold dilutions of essential oils were prepared within the concentration ranges of 0.031216 mg/ml.
5: Chloramphenicol (0.5%, Sina Darou, Iran; ranging from 0.00625 to 5 mg/ml) was used as positive control, while 5% dimethyl sulfoxide and 2.5% tween 80 (as solvent for EOs) were considered as negative control for all the bacteria.
6: An amount of 100 L of the diluted essential oils was added to each well containing 20 L fresh bacterial suspension (OD = 0.5 at 600 nm).
7: The microplates were covered and incubated overnight at 37 C in a shaking incubator to mix the contents of the wells and then 20 L of 0.5%  p-iodonitrotetrazolium chloride (INT, Sigma-Aldrich) solution was added and incubated for 30 min in a shaking incubator.
8: The MIC was recorded as the first concentration of the essential oil with no bacterial growth, which prevented the color change of the medium [ 50].
9: Before adding INT to the wells, the absorbance of bacterial growth was measured at 600 nm and the results of both methods were checked to obtain the real MIC values.
10: The experiments were repeated twice with three replicates.
