0: Invasive species constitute one of the five major drives of global biodiversity loss [ 23] and eradication costs increase with invasion time specially for those invaders that are able to generate a permanent soil seed bank [ 24].
1: Carpobrotus edulis (L.) N. E. Br.
2: (Aizoaceae) is a mat-forming trailing succulent perennial that has been introduced into all continents, mostly growing in the Mediterranean regions [ 25].
3: This species is native from South Africa where it is used in traditional medicine for its several pharmacological applications for the treatment of tuberculosis and other respiratory infections, toothache and earache, facial eczema, wounds, burns, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus, due to the antimicrobial, antiproliferative, and antioxidant properties of  C. edulis leaf extracts [ 26].
4: Despite its pharmacological potential, in the introduced range, this species impacts native communities by decreasing biodiversity and altering nutrient cycling dynamics [ 27,  28].
5: The production of allelopathic compounds contribute to the drastic modification of this species surroundings inhibiting native species germination [ 29].
6: One of the factors determining this invasive species persistence is the intense flowering and high amount of small hard-coated reniform orthodox seeds produced, which generates a permanent soil seed bank [ 30].
7: Invasive species eradication costs are extremely high in advanced invasion stages, especially because local eradication is not possible as long as seeds remain viable in the soil.
8: In weed eradication and control programs it is critical to know the characteristics of the soil seed bank for the implementation of successful control measures and monitoring [ 31].
9: Some ex situ techniques have been proposed to predict the persistence of seeds and to enable policy makers to make faster and better-informed decisions in weed-management programs [ 32].
10: Assessing seed longevity in invasive plants becomes crucial for management policies when prioritizing zones or determining budget allocation in post-eradication plans.
11: Considering  C. edulis wide distribution, its ecological impacts and the fact that it is able to generate a permanent soil seed bank that increase eradication costs, we aimed to describe a rapid AA test for the seeds of this invasive species, evaluating the role of different parameters to estimate seed vigor in natural populations.
12: We tested over different natural populations the optimal conditions that generate a progressive viability loss following the sigmoidal response described for seed aging within a short time period (less than 10 days), maximizing feasibility with low economic costs.
13: This test may be useful for management programs to assess invasive potential, define eradication strategies and promote effective genebank management in non-crop species.
