0: The plant  Oliveria decumbens Vent is used to treat indigestion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and infectious diseases.
1: O. decumbens is an important source of antioxidant, antiinflammatory, anticancer, and antimicrobial materials and may be used for the treatment of infectious and skin diseases (Jamali et al.,  2018).
2: Trachyspermum ammi Linn is a highly valued medicinally important species.
3: The fruits of  T. ammi have been widely administered for liver, spleen as well as gastrointestinal disorders such as nausea, vomiting, reflux, and abdominal cramps.
4: Modern pharmacological studies have shown that  T. ammi possesses antimicrobial, antioxidant, and antiinflammatory activities (Ranjbaran et al.,  2019).
5: Thymus kotschyanus Boiss and Hohen is widely used as a traditional treatment for digestive problems.
6: It is used for the treatment of bronchitis, laryngitis, painful menstruation, colic, and hangovers.
7: This plant has been externally applied to treat minor injuries (wound healing), mastitis, mouth, and throat and gum infections.
8: Pharmacological studies have shown antibacterial, hypotensive, and cardiotonic effects for this plant (Hosseinzadeh et al.,  2015).
9: Zataria multiflora Boiss is extensively used in Iranian traditional medicine for its various effects including as a carminative, stimulant, diaphoretic, diuretic, appetizer, pain killer, control of fever and treatment of dyspepsia, hysteria, sore throat, for the treatment of cough and whooping cough.
10: Modern pharmacological studies have shown that this plant possesses a wide range of biological properties including antinociceptive, antimicrobial, antiinflammatory, and anticancer effects (Kavoosi and Rabiei, ( 2015).
11: These plants are traditionally used to treat gastrointestinal distress and diabetes.
12: These useful plants have valuable phytochemicals properties with broad traditional and medicinal uses including antimicrobial, antioxidant, antiinflammatory, and anticancer activities.
13: But to the best of our knowledge, there is no scientific information about their antidiabetic properties.
