0: Therefore, in recent years, cotton growers in Chinas Xinjiang region have begun to spray defoliants using plant protection unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) 20.
1: Compared with traditional mechanical and artificial pesticide application, use of UAVs is labor and time-saving, with the same significant effect on defoliation and ripening of cotton, but no significant effect on yield and quality 21.
2: With the introduction of UAVs, cotton cultivation has become more mechanized and technological.
3: Pesticides sprayed by plant protection UAVs show high levels of safety and cause little harm to the human body.
4: The UAVs produce a low-altitude and low-volume flight spray.
5: The airflow generated by the propeller causes the pesticide mist to flow through the cotton plant from top to bottom with strong penetration, less drift, and uniform spray 22  24.
6: Therefore, the coverage rate of pesticide formulations is higher and more efficient than that using more traditional methods 25.
7: At the same time, UAVs can reduce land pollution caused by pesticides and improve pesticide utilization rates.
8: The spray efficiency and effectiveness of plant protection UAVs are significantly better than those of boom-type sprayers, but there are few pesticide formulations suitable for plant protection UAVs.
9: The low-altitude, small-volume spray produced by plant protection UAVs imposes stricter requirements on pesticide formulations 26  29.
10: Defoliants currently registered in China are mainly suspension concentrates, water-dispersible granules and wettable powders, which are not suitable for spraying using plant protection UAVs.
11: This lack of pesticide formulations suitable for UAVs is the biggest obstacle in the development of UAV application.
12: Ultra-low-volume pesticide sprays, with high-boiling-point oil solvent as carrier, have low volatility and strong adhesion.
13: Compared with conventional pesticide formulations, they provide special advantages, such as high levels of coverage and better efficacy, making them ideal for plant protection UAVs 30.
