0: Recently, as concerns about the increasing bacterial resistance to conventional antibiotics are growing, the use of medicinal plants, their unique properties, and possibilities of applications are more frequently proposed as an option for treating these problems.
1: The use of agents of complex chemical composition, such as essential oils (EOs), as well as the therapy combination based on a combination of drugs, have already shown to be generally effective strategies to overcome issues with microbial resistance.
2: In general, the antibacterial activity of any EO may depend on one major compound only; however, new findings show that interactions with other compounds in the oils are also important [ 10], whereas possible synergistic or antagonistic effects between EO constituents can either enhance or reduce activities of single compounds [ 11].
3: Similarly, EOs, when used in combination, can initiate a synergistic antimicrobial effect.
4: Various experiments focused on interactions between EOs and their volatile constituents have previously been conducted against numerous microorganisms.
5: In the extensive review of Leigh-de Rapper and van Vuuren [ 12] that was focused on EOs against pathogens of the respiratory tract, synergy was determined for 34% of the EOs combinations.
6: However, only a limited number of studies dealing with the combinatory effects have been performed in the vapor phase, as recently reviewed in Houdkova and Kokoska [ 13].
7: One of the reasons is that there is only a limited number of assays suitable for qualitative evaluation of antimicrobial interactions of volatile agents in the gaseous phase.
8: Recently, we have developed a new broth volatilization checkerboard method allowing evaluation of the antimicrobial activity of volatile agents in the vapor phase, of which the accuracy was verified on a combination of two plant-derived compounds [ 14] as well as on the combination of a compound with an EO [ 15].
9: However, the usability of this method for the determination of the combinatory antimicrobial effect of two EOs has not been proven yet.
