0: Origanum vulgare L. (oregano) and  Thymus vulgaris L. (thyme) are aromatic spice herbs belonging to the Lamiaceae family.
1: They are native to the Mediterranean region and neighboring countries [ 16, 17], and in folk medicine, they have been used as remedies to treat respiratory disorders (e.g., coughs and bronchitis) as expectorants, dyspepsia as well as urinary tracts disorders [ 16, 17, 18, 19].
2: Although the principal components of oregano and thyme EOs are carvacrol and thymol, respectively, their chemical compositions vary depending on geographical region and season of collection [ 20].
3: Both plants are also used in pharmaceutical industries, including the products for the treatment of respiratory infections.
4: For example, the extract of  T. vulgaris is used in two oral over-the-counter products Bronchipret Saft and Bronchipret TP (Bionorica, Neumarkt, Germany), which are used for the treatment of respiratory tract illnesses, cough, and bronchitis [ 21].
5: Furthermore, EOs derived from these plants have been shown to exhibit a broad range of considerable biological activities, including their antimicrobial effect, which has been mostly attributable to the presence of phenolic compounds, such as carvacrol and thymol [ 22, 23, 24]; however, other minor constituents such as monoterpene hydrocarbons  -terpinene and  p-cymene contribute to the antibacterial activity of the oils as well [ 22, 24].
6: To date, numerous studies concerned with the chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of  O. vulgare and  T. vulgaris EOs have been published.
7: Differences between the antimicrobial activities of various chemotypes of these oils have been described [ 25, 26].
8: Furthermore, it was also proved that the antimicrobial effect of these EOs might be comparable to their main component alone [ 27].
9: Due to their antimicrobial properties, EOs (including  O. vulgare and  T. vulgaris EOs) could be used as alternatives to conventional antimicrobial agents, especially against antibiotic-resistant pathogens [ 24].
10: So far, numerous studies regarding the antibacterial activity of  O. vulgare and  T. vulgaris EOs alone against a wide range of microorganisms, including  S. aureus, have been published [ 28, 29, 30].
11: Both EOs have also previously been tested against  S. aureus in combination with other EOs [ 31, 32] as well as with classic/conventional antibiotics [ 33].
12: Moreover, their synergistic and additive inhibitory activity with each other has previously been reported against  S. aureus as well [ 34, 35].
13: However, although there are numerous articles on the antistaphylococcal activity of  O. vulgare and  T. vulgaris EOs tested in the broth and agar, substantially fewer articles dealing with their antibacterial effects against  S. aureus have been published using the vapor phase [ 36, 37].
14: Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, the combinatory antistaphylococcal activity of  O. vulgare EO and  T. vulgaris EO have not previously been studied in the gaseous phase.
