0: Antimicrobial resistance is a critical problem with a high prevalence in both human and animal medicine [ 1].
1: Essential oils (EO) are a great resource as an alternative therapy, providing a lot of antimicrobials (ATMs) compounds produced by aromatic plants.
2: In addition to their usefulness in medicine, essential oils are of great importance in the food industry to guarantee food preservation and safety [ 2].
3: These can act as bacteriostatics or bactericides in several ways by responding to different action mechanisms and having a wide variety of target sites, which generally lead to destabilization of the phospholipid bilayer, destruction of the function and composition of the plasma membrane, loss of vital intracellular components, and inactivation of enzyme mechanisms [ 3].
4: The genus  Melaleuca belongs to the Myrtaceae family, which contains a lot of species of plants producing EO.
5: Among the species of  Melaleuca genus,  Melaleuca armillaris Sm.
6: is one of the most widely cultivated.
7: It is commonly known as Honey bracelet myrtle and grows as a small tree or as a large bush.
8: Investigations by GC-MS (gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry) of its essential oil revealed the presence of 1.8 cineole as the main component [ 4, 5, 6, 7].
9: Several authors evaluated the biological activities for this essential oil.
10: For instance, Rizk et al.
11: (2012) obtained good results in vivo using it for the treatment of the parasite  Schistosoma mansoni, responding to the oxidative activity generated by this pathogen [ 8].
12: In vitro inhibitory activity was also found against  Staphylococcus aureus [ 4] and other bacterial species such as  Bacillus subtilis,  Staphylococcus epidermidis,  Escherichia coli, and  Pseudomonas aeruginosa [ 9].
13: Reports about this plant EO are scarce, but these have potential as antimicrobials, and more studies must be conducted to exploit them.
14: Antibacterial agents from plants can act as important sources of new antibiotics, efflux pump inhibitors, compounds that target bacterial virulence, or can be used in combination with existing drugs [ 10].
