0: In addition to assessing defense traits, we created models that addressed three components of the hypothesis that there is a difference between ranges in competitive ability.
1: The first model included measures of plant performance related to growth, including height, biomass, and growth rate.
2: These measures were taken from plants from introduced and home ranges when all are grown under noncompetitive conditions, either alone in pots or in common gardens.
3: The second model included measures of plant investment in reproduction, that is, fitness, including floral and seed mass and number, and number of vegetative offspring in plants for which asexual reproduction is important.
4: Although EICA as originally formulated did not make specific predictions for reproductive allocation, reproductive traits have been correlated to abundance of invasive plant species within communities (Lloret et al.
5: 2005).
6: The third model included results from direct tests of the relative competitive ability of home- versus introduced-range plants.
7: Competitive ability was measured by growing target plants with intraspecific competitors, interspecific competitor plants from the introduced range, or interspecific competitor plants from the home range.
8: Only results in which the target plant of competition was the invasive species were included, so the test for competitive ability was of the invasive species' relative ability to withstand competition from another plant.
9: Results in which the target plant was another species from the community, which would measure the impact of the invasive species upon other species, were excluded from this analysis.
10: Since more recently published EICA studies tended to use refinements of earlier experimental design and more appropriate nested statistical models, we also ran models using year of publication as an explanatory variable for each of the defense and growth traits.
11: Year of publication did not significantly explain variation in any of the defense or growth effect sizes ( P > 0.4), indicating that improvements in experimental or analytic techniques were unlikely to explain trends in data.
