0: Burn, one of the most common household injuries, is defined as a type of damage of skin or other tissues caused by exposure to heat, chemicals, electric currents, flame, hot liquid, hot metal or object, steam, radiation from X-ray, sunlight, ultraviolet, and so forth.
1: Among them, the thermal injuries are leading cause of burn (86%), followed by electrical sources (4%) and contacting with chemical sources (3%), and other sources of burns (7%) [ 1].
2: Note that flame and scald burns account for the majority of burns in children and adults.
3: Thermal burn causes not only a small or local injury which can be treated at home or outpatient but also the severe and fatal injuries which require the in-hospital treatment.
4: The World Health Organization estimates that thermal burns account for approximated 6.6 million injuries and 300 thousand deaths annually over the world [ 1].
5: Furthermore, Kemp et al.
6: (2017) also suggest that 25,000 children who suffered from burns or scald require the Emergency Department admission in English and Wales each year, of which 3,800 patients must receive in-hospital treatment [ 2].
7: The severity of burn is evaluated by the extent and the depth of burn.
8: The extent of burn is estimated through total body surface area burn (% TBSA) whereas the depth of burn is estimated by the deep extent of injury into the epidermis or dermis.
9: If the burn extent involves only the epidermis, thus it is classified as superficial burn (first degree).
10: When the burn involves epidermis and dermis, it is categorized as partial thickness burn (second degree).
11: The other burn is full-thickness burn (third degree) which extend into subcutaneous fat or deeper.
12: Thermal burns resulted in both local injuries and a systemic response, in case of severe burn (% TBSA > 20%).
13: Deep and widespread burns may cause many complications such as infection, hypovolemia, hypothermia, blood clotting, scarring, joint mobility problem, and posttraumatic stress disorder.
14: In superficial and partial thickness of burns, topical antibacterial regimes with antibiotic ointments or cream and/or absorbent dressing to cover the burn wound are recommended.
15: Otherwise, in deep partial and full thickness of burns, the surgical excision of damaged tissue and skin grafting are performed to cure the wound.
