0: Powdered air-dried leaves of  E. camaldulensis were hydrodistilled in a standard Clevenger-type apparatus, by two different procedures, A and B.
1: In procedure A, named  hydrodistillation with circulating-water, condensed water was circulating, while water was not circulating in procedure B.
2: In mode A, leaves (3 lots of 250 g each) were hydrodistilled and volatiles were collected in a cylindrical glass condenser, where an oily layer (labeled EO S) accumulated at the top of an aqueous phase.
3: The latter could return by gravity to the distillation pot connected to the tip of the collector tube through a plastic tube.
4: Water condensation and dipping in the pot were synchronized, so as to leave about 10 mL of an aqueous layer in the condenser.
5: After 2.5 h of distillation no more oil apparently accumulated at the top of the aqueous phase.
6: EO S was carefully separated from the aqueous layer by a micropipette, dried over anhydrous Na 2SO 4, filtered using Whatman filter paper (No.1), and stored at 20 C in a sealed vial until analysis.
7: The average yield over 3 distillations was 0.98  0.02% ( w/ w).
8: This oil was considered as the reference essential oil of  E. camaldulensis leaves.
9: In mode B. named  hydrodistillation with non-circulating-water, the leaves were hydrodistilled (3 repetitions from lots of 250 g each) while the total condensed aqueous phase remained in the collector tube during the entire distillation time (2.5 h).
10: After 1 h from the end of distillation, two phases clearly separated in the condenser.
11: The accumulated oily layer, labeled EO W [average yield 0.88  0.02% ( w/ w)] was carefully removed from the top of the hydrosol and treated as described for EO S. The condensed aromatic aqueous layer (Aq, about 750 mL) from each hydrodistillation was subjected to multiple solid phase extraction (SPE).
12: To this purpose, a home-made cartridge was prepared by packing 10 g of Lichroprep RP-18 powder inside a glass syringe-like tube; subsequently, the reversed phase was washed with MeOH (50 mL), followed by deionized water (50 mL), and then dried under vacuum.
13: Each fraction Aq was divided in 80 mL portions, which were individually subjected to SPE.
14: Each portion was added to the top of the column, which was then drained out under vacuum, collecting the liquid (F).
15: The column was then washed with MeOH (50 mL), and the eluate (E) was collected.
16: The experiment was then repeated with a new portion of Aq, following an identical procedure.
17: Subsequently, all F and E fractions were separately collected together and carefully evaporated under reduced pressure (200 mmHg) to give two oily residues, EO Ar (average yield 0.05  0.015%) and EO A (average yield 0.28  0.01%), respectively, which were stored under N 2 in sealed vials at 20 C until analysis.
