0: Spontaneous emissions of   S. dentata Aiton and   S. scabra Thunb., as well as the essential oil (EO) composition of the cited species, together with   S. aurea L., were investigated.
1: The chemical profile of the first two species is reported here for the first time.
2: Moreover, in vitro tests were performed to evaluate the antifungal activity of these EOs on   Trichophyton mentagrophytes,   Microsporum canis,   Aspergillus flavus,   Aspergillus niger, and   Fusarium solani.
3: Secondly, the EO antibacterial activity against   Escherichia coli,   Staphylococcus aureus, and   Staphylococcus pseudointermedius was examined, and their antiviral efficacy against the H1N1 influenza virus was assessed.
4: Leaf volatile organic compounds (VOCs), as well as the EOs obtained from the arial part of   Salvia   scabra, were characterized by a high percentage of sesquiterpene hydrocarbons (97.8% and 76.6%, respectively), mostly represented by an equal amount of germacrene D (32.8% and 32.7%, respectively).
5: Both leaf and flower spontaneous emissions of   S. dentata, as well as the EO composition, showed a prevalence of monoterpenes divided into a more or less equal amount of hydrocarbon and oxygenated compounds.
6: Interestingly, its EO had a non-negligible percentage of oxygenated sesquiterpenes (29.5%).
7: S. aurea EO, on the contrary, was rich in sesquiterpenes, both hydrocarbons and oxygenated compounds (41.5% and 33.5%, respectively).
8: S. dentata EO showed good efficacy (Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC): 0.5%) against   M. canis.
9: The tested EOs were not active against   E. coli and   S. aureus, whereas a low inhibition of   S. dentata EO was observed on   S. pseudointermedius (MIC = 10%).
10: Once again,   S. dentata EO showed a very good H1N1 inhibition; contrariwise,   S. aurea EO was completely inactive against this virus.
11: The low quantity of   S. scabra EO made it impossible to test its biological activity.
12: S. dentata EO exhibited interesting new perspectives for medicinal and industrial uses.
