0: Owing to DM and Zn metals advantages, DM-ZnO nanoparticles (NPs) and Nanoemulsion (NE) are investigated highly for dietary supplements and obesity.
1: To enhance the efficacy of DM-ZnO NPs, an essential amino acid Tryptophan is used for the biosynthesis of protein, is considered for NE preparation.
2: Our immune system utilizes tryptophan starvation to restrict the proliferation of malignant cells and pathogens in the body [ 18].
3: Tryptophan breaks into kynurenine and catalyzes by IDO [ 19, 20].
4: Earlier research have proposed that the IDO enzyme activity determination is from the kynurenine-to-tryptophan ratio (Kyn/Trp) [ 21].
5: The liver and the internal human organ secrete bile and store glycogen.
6: In biological conditions, these glycogens help amino acids, minerals, and vitamins into their absorbable forms.
7: Besides that, insulin also induces lipid generation from non-fat sources known as lipogenesis [ 22].
8: Investigations using Zn supplements either as salt or nanoparticles are considered effective in reducing the livers accumulated fat and thereby inducing peripheral insulin activity [ 12].
9: Recent in vitro studies suggest that nano ZnO prevented the accumulation of fat and lipid in them.
10: With the versatile importance of tryptophan, non-ionic surfactant tween 80 and olive oil in an O/W nano emulsification method was used to load the antiobesity drug.
11: The oil in water nanoemulsion is prepared using ultrasonication technique to entrap the bioactive components within the plant extract carrying metal nanoparticle.
12: Tryptophan is loaded by trapping the material by the process of the ultrasonic cavitation method.
13: Moreover, the outer capping part increases the solubility, increasing the targetability and bioavailability of the drug in metabolic conditions.
14: Hence, considering the metabolic pathway of tryptophan, it is crucial to carry it at the lipid accumulation site to enhance its efficiency, which plays a significant role in utilizing the nano composition [ 23].
