0: The culture-dependent and culture-independent methods discussed in this review can partially reveal the responses of indigenous bacterial communities to the DWH oil spill, whereas a full map of bacterial community composition and activity cannot be described by a single method (Figure  1).
1: Biodegradation efficiency and metabolite mechanisms can be adequately researched by obtaining pure cultures of bacterial strains.
2: However, the uncultivability of bacteria from marine environments (>99% of microorganisms resist cultivation in the laboratory Kaeberlein et al.,  2002) is a dramatic obstacle for revealing the real executors of  in situ biodegradation.
3: The 16S rRNA gene-based culture-independent methods, including DGGE, clone libraries, and NGS, can be comprehensively used to identify the bacterial composition in oil spill sites, but these methods provide limited information on metabolism of bacterial communities.
4: Metagenomics and metatranscriptomics based on NGS can provide detailed information on a broad overview of the metabolic potentiality of bacterial communities in the polluted environment at the DNA and RNA levels, respectively.
5: Nevertheless, these two meta-omics techniques provide limited information on the specificity of a metabolic process or the differences due to physiological or environmental conditions.
6: The amplification bias is another obstacle in the application of these two meta-omics techniques (Lasken,  2012).
7: Single-cell sequencing can provide genomic information on uncultivable bacteria, and it can help predict the potential pathways of biodegradation performed by the studied cell.
8: However, single cell DNA/RNA sequences usually have high amplification bias.
9: This is usually caused by some genomic regions being amplified more than others (Ning et al.,  2014).
10: Furthermore, analysis of single cell sequencing data always needs support from meta-omics data for additional analysis.
11: In addition, the determination of metabolic products is also necessary for unraveling of environmental PAH biodegradation processes and also to describe microbial interactions effecting the biodegradation process (Vila et al.,  2015).
12: Therefore, a combination of different approaches is necessary for a full understanding of the composition and activity of bacterial communities.
13: Application of integrated approaches could: (1) deeply describe the components of a complex community, including existing organisms, functions, and their activities at a given time point (Zimmerman et al.,  2014); (2) identify key players, sometimes diverse, rare taxa instead of majority groups (Kleindienst et al.,  2016); (3) reveal more complicated microbial interactions by determining the connections of both cultured and currently uncultured microorganisms (Abraham,  2014); (4) predict functions of the whole community with the help of different bioinformatic tools which can improve prevention and remediation of potential perturbations (Ivshina et al.,  2015).
