0: Recent years, the plant derived essential oil has got increased attention to use as active biomedical agents that can be incorporated into biodegradable active films ( Lopez-Meneses et al., 2018a,  Lopez-Meneses et al., 2018b).
1: The well-known effects of potential biological activities against various infections are received from various aromatic plant and spices in liquid form.
2: Plant essential oils have more phenolic and flavonoid content, which have the excellent anti-oxidant properties.
3: Also, terpenoid content of essential oils has increased anti-oxidant activity ( Su et al., 2020).
4: Essential oils have excellent anti-oxidant activity with increased biological activity such as antimicrobial, anti-cancer, antiviral and larvicidal.
5: Previously more bioactive compounds with different biological activity such as anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory and wound healing properties were screened from essential oil contents ( Jahed et al., 2017a,  Jahed et al., 2017b).
6: Some of the essential oil compounds have anti-diabetics activity.
7: The purification of essential oils from degradation affected by extreme processing conditions is their encapsulation ( Jahed et al., 2017a,  Jahed et al., 2017b).
8: To increase the essential oil properties, recent studies are concentrated encapsulation methods.
9: Among the various encapsulations, the biopolymers mediated encapsulation was applied more in biomedical research.
10: Among the biopolymer mediated encapsulation, chitosan is a naturally derived biopolymer, which has the ability to decrease the water vapor due to the increased permeability in essential oils ( Mohammadi et al., 2015).
11: Chitosan mediated encapsulation of essential oils not only protects the environment, thereby extending the shelf life of the product but also enables a controlled release of active compounds.
12: Nanoencapsulation of essential oil into the chitosan is an emerging route of encapsulation.
13: In this route of encapsulation, the nanomaterial is loaded to envelop or reservoirs where nanomaterial are trapped and released from large surface area.
14: Based on the above facts, the present study was focused on chitosan loaded Guava leaves essential oil against multi drug resistant  K. pneumoniae.
