0: Tagetes minuta from sunflower (Asteraceae - Helenieae) family is a species native to South America but is now a widespread weed in most parts of the world.
1: 1 T. minuta is reported to contain a number of bioactive metabolites of high medicinal, industrial and nutritional value.
2: 2,  3 The majority of published studies of  T. minuta focused on the chemodiversity of volatile oils, flavonoids and thiophenes.
3: 4 Etheric oils are a source of bioactive and valuable molecules that are used in many fields such as aromatherapy, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, nutrition, agronomic and perfume industries.
4: 5 The essential oil compositions of  T. minuta has been studied previously in Iran and other parts of the world.
5: 6-  11 From these findings, it could be seen that the variation in Tagetes oil depends on several environmental as well as genetic factors.
6: 12,  13 In addition, according to different activities of various bioactive compounds, these differences between components of the essential oil will be important in pharmaceutical and nutritional uses.
7: 14 All these scientific facts, make a thorough evaluation necessary of the native Tagetes oil at regional level.
8: Scientific evidence suggests that vegetable oils as another important class of phytochemicals play a vital role in a healthful diet.
9: 15They provide energy and essential fatty acids (linoleic and linolenic acids), which are necessary for good health.
10: The oils are also crucial to the absorption of the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. 15 The amount of unsaturated fats is one of the most important parameter of different edible vegetable oils.
11: 16 On the other hand, the influence of common environment and genes on the fatty acid composition of plants has been demonstrated by several researchers.
12: 17,  18 Previously published investigations on  Tagetes species have demonstrated strong antioxidant properties.
13: 19,  20 Phenol and related compounds occur in food products, especially those of plant origin and are known to be responsible for the antioxidant activities.
14: These secondary metabolites are the subject of increasing scientific interest because of their importance in human health.
15: 21 In recent years, a number of researchers have reported that environmental factors (soil type, sun exposure and rainfall) can widely affect phenolic compounds of the foods.
16: 21 However, since the biosynthesis of volatile compounds are affected by geographical variation and there is no report on the composition of the essential oil of  T.minuta from North of Iran, also no study has been carried out previously on phenolic and fatty acid compounds of this plant grown in Iran, therefore this work was carried out; to identification and compare volatile constituents by GC-MS; to analyze the phenolic acids by HPLC and finally; to investigate quantification of fatty acids in the oil extracted of  Tagetes minuta by GC which may be used as initial materials for medical purposes and use in relevant industries.
