0: A field experiment was conducted for two years from April 2018 to June 2020 at the Gulmarg landscape infested heavily by the  L.  vulgare.
1: Study plots were matched for elevation, aspect, slope, and landscape position to minimize difference in environmental factors.
2: The experiment consisted of five different 5x10m plots and six different treatments as detailed below.
3: In each plot, for each treatment we laid five 1-m 2 subplots (replicates) in a split plot design.
4: In addition, we located 5 permanent 1-m 2 plots each of invaded and uninvaded ones in the same study site, as a possible reference for comparing with before and after treatment plots.
5: In 2018, before the experimental treatments, we estimated percent cover for each species within 1-m 2 vegetation plots using a modified six-class Braun-Blanquet scale (<2%, 25%, 625%, 2650%, 5175%, 76100%) in all treatment plots.
6: We also estimated the species richness, evenness and diversity of each plot.
7: Same parameters were estimated post treatment in each plot as were done before treatment.
8: The treatments applied were herbicide treatment at seedling stage, herbicide application before and after flowering, mowing and herbicide treatment together, mowing, digging and herbicide treatment jointly, and  Leucanthemum uprooting.
9: For the  Leucanthemum uprooting treatment, all  L.  vulgare individuals were hand pulled twice a year and placed outside of the plots while avoiding other species.
10: Hand-pulling was used because it is a common control method for many invasive plants, does not require equipment, is relatively low-cost, and is non-chemical.
11: The seedling stage  L.  vulgare recommended herbicide treatment was 2, 4 D ester in combination with Dicamba (0.7% + 0.5% NIS) 2 to 4 pts per Acre.
12: This herbicide is known to be effective at seedling stage to rosette stage.
13: The before flowering herbicide treatment was 22.5 pts per acre of Aminopyralid in combination with 2, 4 D (GrazoNext Forefront R&P).
14: This treatment was applied in the spring followed by the application of herbicide after flowering treatment which was 0.5 to 1 oz 1gram/gallon of Metasulfuron methyl (Escort).
15: The herbicide treatment at seedling stage was tested in addition to post-emergent herbicide treatments because  L.  vulgare produce abundant seed that can remain viable in the seed bank up to 6 years [ 33], and this treatment was designed to kill seeds as they germinate.
16: Herbicides were applied with backpack sprayers.
17: Other treatments include combination of chemical and mechanical methods, in one treatment we did the mowing followed by digging and then herbicide treatment to the same plot and in other we did mow followed by herbicide treatment.
18: In mowing, all plants present in the plot were clipped from the base and placed outside the plot.
19: Herbicide treatment at seedling stage was done in the 2 nd week of April 2018.
20: At the time of treatment,  L.  vulgare seeds had germinated and seedlings were approximately 515 cm in height.
21: Hand-weeding ( L.  vulgare uprooting), mowing, digging and before flowering herbicide treatments were conducted in the 1 st week of June 2018.
22: Herbicide after flowering treatment was given in the last week of July when the Leucanthemum vulgare is in full bloom and our intension was not to let the plant to mature its seeds.
23: Same treatments were applied likewise in the 2 nd year.
24: Overall, this experimental design included six treatments applied across three growing seasons and a wide range of invaded plots, and uninvaded plots as reference for restoring habitats invaded by  L.  vulgare.
