The authors acknowledge the assistance of the technicians Mohamad Arar and Linda Esa and for An-Najah National University and Birzeit University for their support.
None.
Data are all contained within the article.
NJ carried out experiments. SK conducted GC/MS analysis. LA, NJ, AZ and NS supervised research work and drafted the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All authors gave their consent for the publication of the manuscript and for Nidal Jaradat to be the corresponding author.
Not Applicable.
When applied Microbiology Laboratory (LEMA) under the responsibility of Prof. Aldo Proietti Aparecido Júnior.
Federal University of Amapá—Unifap/Propesg
This work was financially supported by Medical University of Lodz, Poland (503/3-012-01/503-31-001).
The authors acknowledge SUS Research Program (PPSUS), Federal University of Amapá (UNIFAP/PROPESPG), and Prof. M.S. Rosangela Sarquis of the Microbiology Laboratory of the Faculty Estacio SEAMA.
This study was done in the frame of the cooperation with Nairian CJSC (Armenia).
This study was done in the frame of Basic research support by State Committee of Science, Ministry of Education and Science of Armenia, to Yerevan State University.
The plant materials and methods used (see hereafter) were available upon request. All data obtained have been included into the manuscript. 
AA collected plant material, obtained essential oils and identified chemical structure of essential oil components; AM contributed to manuscript preparation and improved English; MP identified plants, developed the methods and contributed to manuscript preparation; NS developed the methods and prepared the manuscript; AB tested the biological activities of essential oils and analyzed data; SA obtained essential oils and provided chemical analyses; AT supervised the study and edited the manuscript. All authors have read and approved the manuscript.
The authors declare no commercial, financial or any other conflict of interest.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
This research was supported by a training program of “Healthy Food for Life” project sponsored by International Research Staff Exchange Scheme (IRSES), we are grateful to their support during the training period. We are thankful to Professor Mihamou Aatika for the botanical identification of 
  
The authors declare that they have received no funding for the research reported.
All data and materials supporting the conclusion in this paper are described and included in this published article.
ID conducted the animal studies, biochemical assays, performed the statistical analysis and wrote the manuscript. AZ oversaw all the work, approved the experimental design, analyzed and interpreted the results and revised the manuscript. AA contributed to the achievement of the isolated aorta experiments. FB and HM carried out the antiplatelet test and helped to improve the manuscript. MLF and MS performed GC and GC/MS analyses of the essential oil and participated in the correction of the manuscript. MB gave some instructions and recommendations to improve the GC/MS analysis part. MB, MA and AL helped in the correction of the manuscript. All the authors read the manuscript and approved the final version.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
All animals were cared for in compliance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, published by the US National Institutes of Health(National Institutes of Health. 2011. Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Eight Edition). Also this study followed principles in the Declaration of Helsinki (
   
This research was supported financially by WAAPP/FCN-02, QualiTree project (DFC no. 10-002AU), and IFS Grant E4704-2.
Acknowledgement
The authors thank the CNPq, FACEPE, UEPB, UFPB, and UFPE for their support. The authors are also grateful to Andrew Alastair Cumming for editing this paper.
The authors would like to thank Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research for laboratory facilities and awarding the Dr. Qudrat-i-Khuda doctoral fellowship to the first author of this research work.
Not applicable.
The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
MMS-e-In carried out hydro distillation of the essential oils, analysis fatty acid composition, antioxidant and cytotoxic assays and also made substantial contribution acquisition of data, analysis and drafted the manuscript. NS involved in the interpretation of the results and in the final revision of the work. MMR and MNHB acquired and analyzed the GC-MS data. MAA conducted the elemental assays. MNH played a major role in the experimental procedures of the antibacterial and antifungal activities. MMR performed the amino acid analysis. SKR designed the study and participated in plant selection and collection, thermal analyses and correction of the manuscript. MRI supervised the work, evaluated the results and corrected the manuscript for publication. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The research leading to these results was funded by the Romanian EEA Research Programme operated by MEN under the EEA Financial Mechanism 2009–2014, project contract No. 1SEE/2014. We also thank the Norwegian Research council for its financial support, and Bioing. A. Diaconu for the DLS measurements.
This work was financially supported by a project of the Natural Science Foundation of Shanxi Province, China (project no. 201601D011070).
This research was supported by “Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq)”, and “Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG)”. To Asia Science for correction and English editing this manuscript.
The authors would like to thank to Dr. Hasan ÖZÇELİK from Süleyman Demirel University Biology Department for identifying the plants. This work is funded by TUBİTAK (Turkey Bilimsel ve Teknolojik Araştırma Kurumu, grant number: 113O284).
We are grateful to the Borujerd Branch, Islamic Azad University for financial support for this work. Mrs. Rashidipour is acknowledged for her kind cooperation.
This research project was supported by a grant from the Research Centre of the Female Centre for Scientific and Medical Colleges of King Saud University.
We express our greatest appreciation to the French cooperation at Congo and to Marien Ngouabi University of Brazzaville (Congo) for financial support.
The authors are grateful to CNPq-Programa “Ciências sem fronteiras” (Grant No. 233761/2014-4) for financial support.
The authors would like to thank the National Centre for Scientific and Technical Research staff in Rabat, Morocco, for their support and analysis of the samples using GC-MS. They would like also to express their gratitude to the members of the Laboratory of Bioprocess and Biointerfaces directed by Professor Hassan Latrache of the Faculty of Science and Technology of Beni Mellal, Morocco, for their donation of bacterial strains.
The authors’ research funds covered the cost of the study and open access fee.
We would like to acknowledge South Africa National Research Foundation (NRF) for Funding this research and the University of Fort Hare for providing conducive environment.
The author’s are grateful to National Research Foundation for financing the project.
All data were provided in the paper.
The authors are grateful to the Food Engineering Technology Department of Polytechnic School of Abomey- Calavi University (UAC) for their financial support. They also like to thank Ariane AGOSSOU for her technical assistance.
The authors are grateful to the help of Fundación Maria Francisca de Roviralta for the acquisition of laboratory equipment.
Not applicable.
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included within the article.
Not applicable.
ABH, NBH, SS and NH designed and wrote the paper. All authors have read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors would like to thank the University of Camerino (FAR 2014/15, Fondo di Ateneo per la Ricerca, FPI000044) for financial support. Gustavo Daniel Campagnaro received a scholarship from Science without Borders (206385/2014-5, CNPq, Brazil).
This work was supported by grants from FAPERN (Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do RN), CNPQ (Conselho Nacional de Pesquisa), CAPES (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior), UFRN (Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte) and by Paulo Roberto Medeiros de Azevedo, who performed the statistical analysis in this study.
FAPERN (Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do RN) provided funding for the study design and CAPES (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior) funded the work during its development.
All the details of data and materials of this study are included in the manuscript.
We are grateful for the financial support of Vice-chancellor for Research and Technology, Sabzevar University of Medical Sciences, Sabzever, Iran.
The authors are grateful Puri Castillo for providing samples of 
  
Not applicable.
This study was supported financially by China Agriculture Research System CARS-36 (2017YFD0502004) and the Key Technology Research and Development Program of Hubei Province (No. 2016ABA113).
All data generated or analysed during this study are included in the supplementary information files of this article.
Authors wish to thank everyone involved in the accomplishment of this study. Authors are thankful to the staff members of National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) Insectary for their assistance. Thanks to Mr. Joseph Malulu for his assistance in operating GC-MS for chemical analysis of essential oils. Authors sincerely thank the Higher Education Students’ Loans Board for financing AT studies at CUHAS.
This study was supported by the Higher Education Students’ Loans Board granted to AT.
The data supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article. The raw data used in the present study are available from the corresponding author on request (kwekae@tpri.or.tz).
The GC-MS analysis was facilitated by funding through the ICCBS-TWAS Post-doctoral Fellowship awarded to Emmanuel Essien and utilized at the H.E.J Research Institute of Chemistry, International Centre for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi, Karachi, Pakistan.
The authors wish to thank FAPESP (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo) for financial support and CAPES (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior) for scholarship.
The authors would like to thank the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq; 472546/2012-0), the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), the Fundação de Amparo à Ciência e Tecnologia do Estado de Pernambuco (FACEPE; APQ-0318-2.08/13) and the Brazilian Ministry for Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI; 01200.003711/2011-11) for research grants. They are also grateful to the NANOBIOTEC research network CAPES for financial support.
The GC-MS analysis was facilitated by funding through the ICCBS-TWAS Post-Doctoral Fellowship awarded to Emmanuel Essien and utilized at the H.E.J. Research Institute of Chemistry, International Centre for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi, Karachi, Pakistan.
This study was performed in the framework of bilateral French-Lithuanian program “Gilibert” (grant n°19981WG/2009/2010), supported by Research Council of Lithuania (grant no. TAP-47/2010 and TAP-11/2010) and the French Research Minister.
The authors wish to thank to Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP) (2016/24985-4) and Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) for providing financial support to this study. FBS and NOdS obtained a fellowship from Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES). PS received a scientific research award from CNPq.
The authors are grateful to Catherine Dussault and Karl Girard-Lalancette for their help with biological assays and Laboratoire PhytoChemia for advice regarding gas chromatography-flame ionization detection (GC-FID) system. We also thank Mammoud Rouhabia (Laval University) for providing 
  
This work was financially supported by Science and Technology Key Project (No. 2013C02032) and Public Technical Project (No. 2012C22084) of Zhejiang province in China. We thank Professor Joyce Kelly for her assistance with GC-MS measurements.
We are grateful to Sida SRL, who supported the chemical analyses and travel to Egypt for both H.R. El-Seedi and A.-K. Borg-Karlson; to HEC Pakistan for financial support to M. Azeem, to EU Mobilitas MTT2 “Chemical ecology” for support to A-.K. Borg-Karlson, to UM, Malaysia for support to H.R. El-Seedi and the Alexander von Humboldt foundation, Germany to M. A. Farag for support his laboratory. M. F. AlAjmi is very grateful to the generous support provided by deanship of research, King Saud University under research group number RGP-150.
The first author received a Scholarship from the from the National Foundation - Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).
All data has been provided in the paper.
The authors would like to thank CNPq and UFPI for the financial support and LAGO-UFPI for the chromatographic analyses, as well as Boris Timah and Lorenna Fonseca for grammatical revision.
The study was funded by the deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University through research group No (RG1435-011). Also, the study was supported by the Botanical Gardens Research Department, Horticultural Research Institute (ARC), and the Faculty of Agriculture—Elshatby, Alexandria, Egypt.
IAO is grateful to Obafemi Awolowo University for study leave and Walter Sisulu University for post-doctoral fellowship.
The authors wish to thank Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq, Proc. N. 309762/2012-0 and 164913/2013-0) and Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP, Proc. N. 2014/15299-4 and 2014/17561-8) for financial support and scholarships. 
We are grateful to Guy Erlich for providing the commercial sample of 
  
This work was supported by a grant provided by the Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research. We are grateful to Dr. R. Abdelhadi for her help in statistical analysis.
This work received financial support from Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.
All data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published article.
MJ and JEM designed the experiments, analysed the data and drafted the manuscript. SA and SM conceived research and approaches and have given final approval of the manuscript to be published. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
One of the authors (SIM) acknowledges the fellowship from UGC, New Delhi under its MANF (Maulana Azad National Fellowship for Minorities) scheme. Financial support from UGC, New Delhi and DST, New Delhi for strengthening the research facilities in the School under the SAP-DRS and FIST programmes, respectively are gratefully acknowledged. The authors declare that there is no conflict of interests.
The authors are grateful to FAPERJ, CNPq FOPESQ–UFF for financial support to the present work.
The authors would like to thank Dean of research of Urmia University for the financial support of the present study.
On this occasion, thank you to: (1) Directorate General of Higher Education that has funded this research; (2) Group Researchers and Entrepreneurial Agroindustry Atsiri (GUREAA) that gave a shelter for the research activities in essential oil.
The authors express their gratitude to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Tunisia. The authors dedicate this manuscript to the memory of Prof. Imen Said, who passed away on August 2016, for providing constant support to the characterization of plant essential oils using HS-SPME.
This work received financial support from Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Grant No. 11/TM06).
All data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published article.
AL performed research and drafted the manuscript, VL performed the research, ELB, IS and DT analyzed the data results, MLDG and ER participated in writing and editing results, GS and ALiguori proposed the subject and designed the research. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Vanessa Leotta thanks Regione Calabria for awarding a fellowship.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Calabria Region (PSR, Misura 1.2.4, 2013).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
We made our sincere and careful efforts to include and cite most of available reports and studies pertaining to radioprotection by aromatic plants and plant products however, exclusions if any, are regretted.
This work was supported by the Award Fund of
  
We would like to thank the Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (EMBRAPA), CAPES, and CNPq 405485/2016-6 for contributing to this work.
The authors acknowledge the assistance of the technicians Mohamad Arar and Linda Esa and they acknowledge An-Najah National University and Birzeit University for their support.
The authors gratefully acknowledge the support provided for this survey by the Biotechnology Development Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran (Grant no. 950503). The authors also would like to thank Dr. Pasquale Chiaiese, Lab Specialist of the Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, and Ms. Maryam Salehi, Ph. D. student of Plant Breeding Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, for their helpful assistance and comments during the experiment.
The authors thank Dr. Damani Bryant for technical advice regarding cell culture.
This work was supported by EMBRAPA, UFRJ, FAPERJ, and CNPq (Process No. 453893/2014-7).
Authors are grateful to Mr. Akeem A. Bello of Multi-Environmental Management Consultants Limited, Lagos, Nigeria for fatty acid, phospholipid and phytosterol analyses. Messers Nwunuji Baba and Godfrey S. Ngantem who are the Technologists in the Chemistry Laboratory of Federal University Wukari, Nigeria are also appreciated for their technical assistance.
Reviews by Aaron Jubb (USGS), Robert L. Kleinberg (Schlumberger), and John Ratulowski (Schlumberger) improved this manuscript. Peter Warwick (USGS) contributed the New Albany shale sample. Paul R. Craddock (Schlumberger) provided suggestions toward spectral analysis. This research was funded in part by the USGS Energy Resources Program. Any use of trade, firm, or product names is for descriptive purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.
None.
This work is supported and sponsored by the Shaanxi Science and Technology Commission (No. 2014JM2058), and Shaanxi Education Commission (No. 13JS005), the Key Project of Baoji University of Arts and Sciences (ZK 16053), the Innovation and Entrepreneurial Programme for Undergraduate (201610721019).
Datasets supporting the results of this article are also included in the additional files.
This work has been funded by the Valencia Regional Government (Generalitat Valenciana): PROMETEOII/2014/052; and the Spanish Ministerio de Educación y Cultura (AP2007-04606): FPU fellowship to I.M.-P.
Dr F Saporito wishes to thank ABOCA Società Agricola S.p.A. for supporting her PhD grant. The authors wish to thank Dr F Riva for performing the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) test and Dr M Boiocchi (Centro Grandi Strumenti, University of Pavia) for TEM images.
We are very grateful to the Master Program in Applied Chemistry of the Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Ecuador, for financial support.
The authors thank Erin McClelland of Middle Tennessee State University for the providing 
  
The authors are thankful to the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology (DST), New Delhi, Govt. of India for financial assistance. Thanks are due to D. S. Rawat, plant taxonomist, Department of Biological Science, GBPUAT Pantnagar for identifying the plant, while the Advanced Instrumentation Research Facility, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi is thankfully acknowledged for the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis.
The authors thank Exentiae s.r.l. for gifting rosemary essential oil.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included within the article.
The authors wish to thank FAPESP (13/12052-5, 14/50827-1), Capes (2032/2014-07), EPSRC-UK (EP/M028763/1) and Mateus Segatto.
The authors would like to extend their sincere appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at king Saud University for its funding this Research group NO. (RG 1435-011).
The authors would like to extend their sincere appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at king Saud University for its funding this Research Group NO. (RG 1435–011). This study was also supported by the Faculty of Agriculture, Alexandria University, Egypt.
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article.
Work carried out with a contribution of the LIFE financial instrument of the European Union for the project “Low pesticide IPM in sustainable and safe fruit production” (Contract No. LIFE13 ENV/HR/000580). 
This work was supported by the grant RTA2014-00062-00-00 of the Spanish INIA, and the activity of the Consolidated Research Group A12 of Aragon.
Authors thank the Post-Graduation Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, UFRGS, especially T. Tasca (*) from Laboratório de Pesquisa em Parasitologia, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil, for the helping with 
  
This work was supported by São Paulo Research Foundation—FAPESP (2015/14278-6). The authors thank the botanist Inara Regiane Moreira Coneglian for plant identification; our collaborators Mário Machado Martins, Eduardo Bagagli, Vera Lúcia Mores Rall and Luiz Claudio Di Stasi for analysis tools, materials and helpful suggestions; Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel—CAPES for the scholarship granted to Fabiana Barcelos Furtado.
We thank the French Ambassador for a financial contribution and his personal implication in the project, the Batwa of Matara, ABEM, Aliksir, ALUMA, ACVE, and all the organizations that participated directly or indirectly in the financing. We would like to thank Mr. Marco Giulio Rigamonti for the optical microscope image.
To the Faculty of Chemical Engineering at Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán, FEMSA Biotechnology Center at Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Campus Monterrey and Instituto Tecnológico de Mérida for the facilities provided during the research. To the Herbarium at Natural Resources Unit of the Center of Scientific Research of Yucatán by the ease provided during the process of classification and identification of the specimens of plant material. Special thanks to the personnel in charge and technical staff of the Laboratory of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Laboratory of Cell Culture and Laboratory of Fermentations. To the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACYT) for the financial support through the scholarship number 222612.
CINVESTAV-IPN funded this project. Institutional financing consisted of the purchase of material, reagents, and payments of doctoral research stay.
All the data obtained and materials analyzed in this research are available with the corresponding author.
ZS conducted the AFM experiments, was responsible for MIC determination and associated data analysis. AAG conceived the idea of using essential oils and provided intellectual input into the manuscript. TS designed all experiments and performed LSCM, cell wall stress experiments and wrote an initial draft of the paper. MW provided knock-out strains, JM clinical strains and each provided intellectual input into the data interpretation and manuscript. TESD wrote the initial research proposal, supervised the work, provided intellectual input and edited the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
We are grateful to Dr. Richard J. Bennett, Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University, USA, for providing the RSY150 and RSY35 for this study. We thank Rebecca Jameson for the GC-FID and GC–MS analysis of the CNB oil and Cheghaf Madarati for images of glucanase treated 
   
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
Committees from the following institutions approved this study: University of Regina’s research ethics board and Regina Qu’Appelle Health Region. Samples were taken as part of routine care and anonymized, therefore according to ethical guidelines a wavier was granted for patient consent since this is no longer considered personal data.
This work was supported by National Science and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) grant to TESD (228206-07) and a NSERC Canada Research Chair to MW (950-228957). TESD was supported by the Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI). TS was partially supported by the Faculty of Science and TESD’s CFI IOF. ZS was partially supported by the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research at the University of Regina.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
This study was conducted as part of a Pharm.D. student thesis project in Faculty of Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch of the Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. The authors would like to thank the personnel of the Pharmacology and Toxicology Laboratories (Ms. Amiri) for their help.
We are grateful to Madame Maude Bourlet for her assistance to carry out the bioassays.
This work is partly supported by the Belgian Fund of Scientific Research (FNRS) T.0190.13.
The plant materials and methods used were available upon request. All data obtained have been included into the manuscript.
AH collected plant material, extracted essential oils, tested the biological activities of essential oils and analyzed data; JB developed the methods; CB controlled experiments; GF identified chemical composition of essential oils; ZM identified the plant; YVH contributed to manuscript preparation and JQL supervised the study and edited the manuscript. All authors have read and approved the manuscript.
We gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Research Council of the Islamic Azad University of Yazd.
The authors would like to thank all of the colleagues and students who contributed to this study. The authors are indebted to Dr. Anouar Fendri, Associate Professor attached to Sfax University, for English language correction.
The authors declare that they have received no funding for the research reported.
The complete data are all contained within the paper and are also available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
The authors sincerely thank Dr. Seyed Mansour Mirtadzadini; Biology Department; Shahid Bahonar University of Kerman.
The authors are grateful to Dr. Oben Mbeng Lawrence for English revision.
Not applicable.
The dataset supporting the conclusions of this article is included within the article.
This work was supported by a grant from University Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdallah for Laboratory Physiology-Pharmacology & Environmental health. The authors would like to thank the Regional Center of Interface, University Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah, Fez, Morocco for providing GC/MS facilities.
The authors are thankful to the Department of Biotechnology, Periyar University, Salem, Tamil Nadu, India, for providing facilities for carrying out this research work, and we would also like to thank the Institute of Vector Control Zoonoses (IVCZ), Banahalli, TN, India, for providing mosquito larvae.
The authors would like to thank their colleagues from Division of Pathological Anatomy, the Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment Centre of Military Hospital 175 and Department of Analytical Chemistry, University of Science, Vietnam National University of Ho Chi Minh City for their assistance during this project.
The authors are thankful to the Research Deputy of Kashan University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, Iran, for financial support.
The author would like to acknowledge Malcolm Diack of Otago Locusts for his kind donation of 
  
Sergio Andrade-Ochoa and Karla Fabiola Chacón-Vargas would like to thank Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACYT) for scholarship for their graduate studies. Sergio Andrade-Ochoa wishes to acknowledge the support of Intituto Chihuahuense de la Juventud (ICHIJUV) and Eric Contreras-Suarez in carrying out this work. 
This work was carried out as part of the activities of the Aromatic Plant Research Center (APRC, 
  
We thank Taylor & Francis Editing Services and Dr. Mary Otieno from International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) for their linguistic assistance during the preparation of this manuscript.
The manuscript and studies concerning anticancer influence of polyphenols of olive oil were funded by the MN grant No. 01-0276/08/259 from Medical University of Gdansk (Gdansk, Poland) and Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The authors kindly thank Prof. Stephan Nussberger (Institute of Biomaterials and Biomolecular Systems, Department of Biophysics, University of Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany) for his valuable comments on our article.
This study was supported by grants from CAPES (Coordenadoria de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior) and CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico), Brazil. The authors thank Mr. Jailson Araujo Dantas and Mrs. Celia Regina Miranda for technical assistance.
The authors would like to acknowledge Karianne Skogland Enerstvedt, Mari Mæland Nilsen, Azin Bayat, and Mads Busvold for their help with the exposure set-up and sampling. The sequencing service was provided by the Norwegian Sequencing Centre (
  
The Research Council of Norway, PETROMAKS 2 (project # 229153), is gratefully acknowledged for financial support. Additional funding was obtained from the research program: Bioactive, University of Stavanger, Stavanger, Norway. The funding bodies had no role in the design of the study, collection, analysis, and interpretation of data and in writing the manuscript.
The dataset (raw sequencing data) analysed during the current study are available in the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) repository, 
   
All supporting data generated during this study are included in this published article and its additional files.
This study is supported by Medicinal Plant, Research Center of Barij, Kashan, Iran.
This study was supported by Amol University of Special Modern Technologies, Amol, Iran.
We thank Argonne National Laboratory for synchrotron beamtime, A. Berg for preparing samples for sequencing, and R. Neumann for sequencing. This paper was improved by helpful comments from N. Andre and one anonymous reviewer.
This work was supported by Gyeongnam National University of Science and Technology Grant in 2017.
The authors thank Prof. Paul M Mayer and Dr. Sharon Curtis of the John L. Holmes Mass Spectrometry Facility at the University of Ottawa (Ottawa, Canada) for facilitating the GC-MS analysis of oil samples. They thank also Mejri Zied for the statistical analysis.
Not applicable.
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included within the article.
QWZ designed the study, conducted the literature search, extracted and analyzed data, drafted the manuscript, and is the corresponding author. LGL contributed to the critical revisions of the manuscript. WCY co-designed the study and co-developed the full text of the review, and is the co-corresponding author. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Not applicable.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All data used in this systematic review are fully available in the public domain.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
This work was supported by funding from the Macau Science and Technology Development Fund (FDCT/042/2014/A1), Ministry of Science and Technology of China (No. 2013DFM30080), University of Macau (MYRG2014-00162-ICMS-QRCM and MYRG2016-00046-ICMS-QRCM).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
We thank Kevin Foley for his technical support. Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the view of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Mention of trade names or commercial products in this publication is solely for the purpose of providing specific information and does not imply recommendation or endorsement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.
We thank Fapesp, CNPq and Capes agencies for their financial support and EMBRAPA (Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation)/UNAERP for technical and scientific support.
This study was supported by FAPESP (Foundation of São Paulo State Research - Project No. 2012/17405-4), CNPq (Proc. 304592/2013-7), CAPES and University of Ribeirão Preto.
Original data used and analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
This project is supported by RIRDC Grant (Project ID 201430161). Saleha Akter’s Ph.D. is supported by Australian Government Research Training Program Scholarship.
The content of this paper is extracted from the Ph.D. thesis (Grant No. 94/644) submitted by Mahboobeh Raeiszadeh which was financially supported by the Deputy of Research, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, I.R. Iran.
This review, including the costs to publish in open access, was supported by a grant from the World Association of Infectious Diseases (WAidid).
Not applicable.
This article has been prepared from the master’s thesis of Hasan Huseyin IPCAK supported by TUBITAK “2210-C Domestic Graduate Scholarship Programme for Priority Areas” and EGETAV company in Izmir/Turkey. He is also thankful to TUBITAK for financial support during my thesis period. Besides, the authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from Faculty Member Training Program (ÖYP).
Authors approved the data and materials availability.
The authors extend their appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Khalid University for funding this work through General Research Project under grant number (G.R.P-267-38).
The authors would like to acknowledge Open Access Centre for the Advanced Pharmaceutical and Health Technologies (Lithuanian university of Health Sciences) for the opportunity to use modern infrastructure and perform this research.
Funding from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), the NSERC CREATE-IDEM (Integrated Design of Extracellular Matrices) program, 20/20: NSERC Ophthalmic Biomaterials Research Network, and the Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation Early Researcher Awards program is acknowledged.
This work was supported by grant from MIUR-ITALY PRIN2015 “Top-down and Bottom-up approach in the development of new bioactive chemical entities inspired on natural products scaffolds” (Project N. 2015MSCKCE_003).
We thank Francesca Tavella and Giovanni Macaluso for their support during the collection of the plants.
The authors thank the Cearense Foundation of Research Support (FUNCAP) and the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) for financial support for research, the Microbiology and Molecular Biology Laboratory and the Research Laboratory Natural Products.
We are grateful to Dr.V. Mozaffarian (Research Institute of Forests and Rangelands. Tehran) for assistance in botanical identification
This work was supported by grants from the CAPES Foundation, the National Council of Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the Minas Gerais State Foundation for Research Aid (FAPEMIG), and the Graduate School Rede Bionorte (Biodiversidade e Biotecnologia).
PLBF participated in the collection and preparation the plants to the herbaria, run the laboratory work, analyzed the data and contributed to the drafted paper. RCS helped with lab work. JKRS guided the lab work and data analysis. CS identified the plants and managed their introduction in herbaria. RHVM helped with lab work and data analysis. JGSM proposed the work plan, guided the laboratory work and drafted the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors would like to thank CAPES, a Brazilian Government’s research funding agency, for its financial support.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Not applicable.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Data sharing not applicable to this article as no dataset is generated or analyzed during the current study.
Mr. Naveed Ahmad is very grateful to National Institute of Lasers and Optronics (NILOP) Islamabad for providing the necessary research facilities.
LZ designed the study and participated in the manuscript drafting. QH and WXW were responsible for laboratory examinations and data analyses. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors are grateful for financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (20676041).
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All data and material were available in this study.
The study was agreed to be published in this journal.
No applicable.
The study was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (20676041).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors thank Luke’s laboratory technical staff for their assistance. We are also grateful for funding from the Strategic Research Program (SRC) Academy of Finland (grant number 293045, Novel protein Sources of Food Security).
To Professor Richard J. Kuhn, Purdue University for the generous gift of the plasmid containing the Ross River virus strain T48 (RRV-T48) sequence, GenBank 
  
The authors would like to thank anonymous reviewers for valuable comments.
This work was supported by the Research Affairs, United Arab Emirates University (UAEU), through UPAR Grant to AC as PI (Grant No. 31F092).
This research was supported by National Center for Complementary & Integrative Health Award (#R01AT009457) (Zhang), the Agency for Healthcare Research & Quality grant (#1R01HS022085) (Melton), the National Center for Advancing Translational Science (#U01TR002062) (Liu/Pakhomov/Jiang), and the University of Minnesota Clinical and Translational Science Award (#8UL1TR000114) (Blazer).
The authors wish to thanks Akdeniz University Scientific Research Projects Unit (2008.01.0105.011) for financial support of this work.
This research was supported by Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Science, ICT and future Planning (2016R1A2A2A05918651).
The authors would like to thank the 
  
We thank A. Richard from the “Centre de Microscopie Electronique” of the University of Orléans for assistance in SEM data acquisition. This work was supported by a grant of the Romanian Ministry of Research and Innovation, CCCDI-UEFISCDI, through the project “Improvement of Life Quality by Developing new Technologies Based on Efficient Nanoparticles in Water and Soil Decontamination-PN-III-P1-1.2-PCCDI-2017-0134”, Contract Nr. 23PCCDI/2018.
MP performed the preliminary investigations, adapted the fluorescence-microscopy technique, designed the experiment and analyzed the data. AB performed the fluorescence-microscopic works, including sample preparation, staining and image processing, and was a major contributor in writing the manuscript. AN and AK assisted the work and the interpretation of the Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) imaging and co-wrote the sections, which included the FTIR. HS and HH enabled the investigation in their working groups. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Special thanks to Dr. Elisabeth Seigner, Dr. Martin Müller and Stefanie Gellan of the Research Groups IPZ5c, IPZ1a and IPZ4a at the Bavarian State Research Center for Agriculture (LfL) for supply, guidance and assistance in the fluorescence-microscopy, to Dr. Dieter Treutter† and Ina Tittel of the Technical University of Munich, TUM School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan, department of fruit science for supply, guidance and assistance in the histological techniques and light-microscopy.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The valerian breeding project is part of the Demonstration Project Medicinal Plants (KAMEL) and is being supported by Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe e.V. (FNR) on behalf of the German Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture based on a decision of the German Bundestag.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors would like to express their deepest gratitude to the Faculty of Nature and Life Sciences, University of Bejaia, Algeria, for their technical support. All the authors express their sincere thanks to the staff of the Associated Laboratory in Marine and Aquaculture Ecosystems, Faculty of Nature and Life Sciences, University of Bejaia, for providing all necessary facilities to execute the research work. The authors would like to express their deepest gratitude to the Faculty of Agronomy of Setif, Algeria, for their technical support. This study was supported by internal funding.
NK was grateful to the University Grants Commission (UGC), Government of India for providing the fellowship [Grant No.: F. 2-14/2012(SA-I)] to pursue Ph.D. The authors were thankful to Director, DFRL, and Joint Director, DRDO-BU Centre for Life Sciences for their kind support and encouragement.
This study was supported by grants from the Fundação Cearense de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (FUNCAP).
The authors would like to thank Ms. Jamila Idbourrous, Director of UCFA Tissaliwine (argan products cooperative), Agadir, Morocco, for the extraction of argan oil.
The authors would like to thank the Scientific and Technological Project in Jiangsu Province, China (Contract No.BE2007407), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No.2242016 K40024), and the Key Research and Development projects of the Ministry of Science and Technology (No.2016YFD0400604-02) for financially supporting this research.
The study was supported by the Scientific and Technological Project in Jiangsu Province, China (Contract No.BE2007407), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No.2242016 K40024), and the Key Research and Development projects of the Ministry of Science and Technology (No.2016YFD0400604–02).
The datasets used and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
This study was financially supported by the Special Scientific Research of Agriculture Public Welfare Profession of China (No. 201303077).
This work was supported by a grant of the Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, CNCS/CCCDI-UEFISCDI, project number PNIII-P2-2.1.BG-2016-0126, within PNCDI III, BG-15, entitled “Natural products with antifungal activity”, acronym PNEA. We have been able to carry out this research with the support of Interdisciplinary Research Platform and Antioxidant Systems Research Laboratory A1c, belonging to Banat University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine “King Michael I of Romania’’ from Timisoara, where chemical, antifungal and herbicidal experiments were made. Also, the cytotoxic effect has been tested at the laboratories of Faculty of Pharmacy “Victor Babes” University of Medicine and Pharmacy Timisoara. We are grateful.
We want to thank the financial support given by Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, through the project: PROY_QUI_1144. 
This work was co-financed by the grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31701358), the Research Program of Sichuan Education Department (17ZB0114), and the Special Fund for Agro-scientific Research in the Public Interest (201303069-08).
This work was financially supported by grant No. 2013/11/D/NZ7/01613 from the Polish National Science Centre as well as Ministry of Science and Higher Education in Poland within the DS2 project of the Medical University of Lublin. This work was developed using the equipment purchased within the agreement No. POPW.01.03.00-06-010/09-00 Operational Program Development of Eastern Poland 2007–2013, Priority Axis I, Modern Economy, Operations 1.3. Innovations Promotion.
We acknowledge support of this work by the project “OPENSCREEN-GR: An Open-Access Research Infrastructure of Target-Based Screening Technologies and Chemical Biology for Human and Animal Health, Agriculture and Environment” (MIS ‎5002691) which is implemented under the Action “Reinforcement of the Research and Innovation Infrastructure”, funded by the Operational Programme “Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation” (NSRF ‎2014-2020) and co-financed by Greece and the European Union (European Regional 326 Development Fund). Start-up funds provided by the MDRT “Bioeconomy” at Northumbria University-Newcastle, UK to M.I.P. are kindly acknowledged. The authors thank C. Tassou for providing full access to microplate reader equipment, N. Chorianopoulos for his valuable technical support and scientific advice, and greatly acknowledge the assistance of Eleni Papavasilopoulou and Dimitris Georganakis from VIORYL S.A.
We would like to thank National Council for Scientific and Technical Research (CONICET), and National University of Chaco Austral for financial support. 
The authors would like to thank Prof. Lang-Bang Hung and Jenn-Shou Tsai (Department of Food Science, National Taiwan Ocean University, Taiwan) for providing instruments and equipment, as well as instructions for operating analytic instruments. This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81473423). We also want to show our appreciation to the individuals who helped us with the sample collection: Zhou Aihua, Tang Yuanjun, and Chen Junhu from Shennongjia National Nature Reserve Administration, Hubei Province. We also want to thank the Seventh scientific exploration team of TCM resources, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, for sample collection.
This project was supported by Guangxi Science and Technology Development Plan (No. 15118004) and Guangxi Technical Innovation Project (No. [2017]271). The authors thank Liu, Q.R. (College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China) for identifying the plant.
This study was supported by grants from the Fundação de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento do Ensino, Ciência e Tecnologia do Mato Grosso do Sul (FUNDECT), Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientıfico e Tecnológico (CNPq), and Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES). The authors thank the owners of the Hotel Cabanas for their help in collecting the 
  
This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Project of China (2017YFC1601700), National Nature Foundation Committee of China (Grants No. 31601576), the National Major Project for Agro-product Quality & Safety Risk Assessment (GJFP2017001, GJFP2017015-02), and the earmarked fund for China Agriculture research system (CARS-13-10B).
The authors are thankful to Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado em Goiás (FAPEG) for financial support. To Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG) and Universidade Estadual de Goiás (UEG) specially to Programa de Mestrado Territórios e Expressões Culturais do Cerrado (Teccer) and Ciências Moleculares for scientific and financial assistance. LDD thanks CNPq (Brazil) for PhD grant (GDE 232620/2014-8). To Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior-CAPES by M.S.O. fellowship.
Funding from the European Community’s Seventh Framework Programme (No. 245199, PlantLIBRA project) has been received. We are indebted to Bettina Bein-Lobmaier, Hanneliese Michitsch and Tamara Koldziej for carrying out the analyses.
Rino Ragno is thankful to Virgina Filacchione for having checked the manuscript’s style and grammar.
We would like to thank Haim Kalev for beekeeping and field assistance, Maor Zavitan and Shiran Yona for laboratory assistance.
This research was funded by Islamic Azad University, Shahrekord branch. Grant number: 76576.
This study does not involve any human or animal testing. We are grateful to Sari Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources University (SANRU) and Iran's National Elites Foundation for support of this research.
The authors wish to acknowledge Luis Fernandez (IBEC) for his helpful advice in the interpretation and accuracy assessment of the classification models.
We thank Gianni Martinez (Vivaio Belcastro, Scalea, CS, Italy) for providing fresh chinotto fruits, and Carmen Gangale of the Botanical Garden of the University of Calabria. 
The authors acknowledge the use of the facilities in the Loughborough Materials Characterisation Centre, Department of Materials, for SEM analysis, and T. Coles for the use of the microbiology laboratory of the Chemical Engineering Department of Loughborough University.
The authors wish to thank Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico-CNPq, CAPES, PROCAD, Ciencias do Mar-CAPES, and the Ministério de Ciência, Tecnologia, Inovação e Comércio-MCTIC (Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology, loose translation) for the financial support. Lila Oyama and Hugo Rocha are CNPq fellowship honored researchers. Ruth Medeiros, Rafael Camara, Jessyka Monte, Rony Viana, Karoline Melo and Moacir Queiroz received a scholarship from CAPES. The authors would like to thank the Department of Biochemistry at Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte for letting us to use the cell culture room. 
This study is part of doctoral research. The authors thank all those who contributed to the achievement of this work, including the head of the experimental station of the Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Natural Sciences and Life, Blida University I. We also thank the responsible for the herbarium at the High National School of Agronomy of El-Harrach—Algiers. The authors are grateful to Sadek Oudni, Djouhra Khitouche, and Rima Zedadra for their help. Last but not least, we thank Pr. Kamal Bechkoum for reading the manuscript and sending us helpful comments from Gloucestershire University in the UK, and the reviewers of the manuscript for their comments and suggestions.
This work has been supported by a grant (No. 20110941) from Secretaría Nacional de Educación Superior, Ciencia y Tecnología (SENESCYT) of Ecuador, during the PhD program of one of the authors (J.R.). We are grateful to Massimo Boiocchi (University of Pavia) for X-ray diffraction experiments.
This research was supported by The Deanship of Academic Research at The University of Jordan (1786).
The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
The authors wish to acknowledge the Deanship of Academic Research & Quality Assurance at the University of Jordan for funding. They also wish to acknowledge School of Pharmacy at University of Jordan for the provided support.
The authors thank Walter Gaino and Paolo Lo Turco for their contribution in the collection and propagation of lavender plants; and Frat.lli Gramaglia nursery for hosting cultivation.
This study was funded by NKUBAP (University of Namık Kemal Scientific Research Project) within the framework of NKUBAP.00.24.YL.14.04. It was taken form MSc Thesis.
The authors would like to extend their sincere appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University, Saudi Arabia through research group No (RG 1436-020). The Faculty of Agriculture, Alexandria University (2016-2017) supported the current research.
The study was funded by the deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University through research group No (RG 1436–020).
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article.
The authors are thankful to Mr James Franklin Maxwell, a botanist at the CMU Herbarium, Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, CMU, Chiang Mai province, Thailand; and Miss Wannaree Charoensup, a scientist at the Department of Pharmaceutical Science, Faculty of Pharmacy, CMU, for their assistance with the taxonomic identification of the plant samples. We also thank Asst. Prof. Dr. Sunanta Wangkarn from Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, CMU for assistance in chemical analyses.
This work was supported financially by the Faculty of Medicine Research Fund, Diamond Research Grant of the Faculty of Medicine, and the Excellence Center in Insect Vector Study of the research administration, CMU. The authors are grateful to the Faculty of Medicine and CMU for defraying the publication cost.
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article.
This project was supported by the deputy of research at Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS) (grant number 26183) and was a part of Dr Z Talaeian, Pharmacology department.
This work was supported by grants from Apha B&H Co. Ltd. (Chungcheongbuk-do, Korea).
The data that support the findings of this study are available upon request to the corresponding author.
The authors would like to thank the laboratory of Islamic Azad University Izeh. This article has been derived from an MSc thesis. 

  
We thank the two anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments and suggestions for improving the manuscript and Jianwen Wang for helpful data analysis of the manuscript.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31460209), special finance project of Jiangxi Academy of Forestry (2016512701), the Postdoctoral science Foundation of Jiangxi Academy of Sciences, the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions (PAPD) and the Collaborative Innovation Plan of Jiangsu Higher Education (CIP). There was no additional external funding received for this study. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
The data supporting the conclusions of this article (raw RNA-Seq reads) are available in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Sequence Read Archive (SRA): SRP127892, 
   
Part of this work was supported by 
  
This publication has emanated from research conducted with the financial support of Universiti Brunei Darussalam. We would also like to thank IMBRU Essential Oil Enterprise for providing the machinery for VCO extraction.
This study was supported by the Vicerrectoría de Investigaciones – Universidad de Santander, under grant 005-14; and the Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Extensión – Universidad Industrial de Santander, under grant 5658. The authors would like to express their appreciation to Dr. Marcos López Casillas and to Dr. Wendy Grey Nieto Pérez for their support in flow cytometry assays; to Dr. Yamile Leonor Vargas for Benznidazole purification, and to Dr. Camilo Durán, Qm. Carlos Ramírez, and Qm. Yaride Pérez for their support during the collection and characterization of EO samples. We are grateful to Mr. Emile Blanchette for assistance in the proofreading of this study.
This research was supported by the Vicerrectoría de Investigaciones – Universidad de Santander, under grant 005–14; and the Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Extensión – Universidad Industrial de Santander, under grant 5658.
There are no restrictions to the availability of any materials and data. The raw data are available to other researchers upon request.
The authors wish to thank Jae-Won Jang (Qwell Inc., Seoul, South Korea) for providing microencapsulated essential oil for this study.
We would like to thank Mrs. Erika Kocsis for her microbiological assistance.
This microbiological work (especially BDT) was supported by the New National Excellence Program of the Ministry of Human Capacities (ÚNKP-17-3-III-PTE-108).
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
We thank Qualitas Health, Inc. for donating 
  
The authors would like to thank Dr. Robin Libero Carbonara for his professional editing service in reviewing and editing the manuscript.
This research was supported by International College of Digital Innovation (ICDI), Chiang Mai University under ASEAN+3 Cross Border Research Program.
The authors acknowledge Stéphane Grégoire and Lucy Martine (Inra, Dijon, France) for fatty acids and tocopherols analyses, Emmanuelle Camus-Prost (Laboratoire Spiral, Couternon, France) for polyphenols analysis, and Philippe Durand (Laboratoire Spiral, Couternon, France) for the KRL test. 
Lakshmi Vasireddy died before the submission of the final version of this manuscript. Mark S. Davies accepts responsibility for the integrity and validity of the data collected and analyzed.
We thank Dr John Perry of the Freeman Hospital, Newcastle, UK for kindly supplying Bcc clinical isolates. MLST analysis was carried-out at The Scottish Meningococcus and Pneumococcus Reference Laboratory (SMPRL), Glasgow, with help from Dr M. Diggle.
The authors would like to thank Universiti Sains Malaysia for the financial support under Research University (RUI) Grant No. 1001/PTEKIND/814147.
The authors would like to thank Norberto Peporine Lopes, Francel Verstappen, Adele van Houwelingen, and Katarina Cankar for their collaboration in this research, and the Fundação de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento do Ensino, Ciência e Tecnologia do Estado de Mato Grosso do Sul (FUNDECT), the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq), and Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES) for financial support.
The first author is thankful to the UGC, Government of India for providing Junior Research Fellowship [File no: F. 2-14/2012(SA-I)] to pursue Ph.D. Authors are also grateful to Dr. K. Jayathilakan and Dr. M.C. Pandey, Freeze Drying and Processing Technology Division, Defence Food Research Laboratory, Mysuru, India, for providing the γ–radiation facility. The authors are also thankful to Director, DFRL, and DRDO-BU-CLS for their kind support.
The authors thank to National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET) for their collaboration in granting the 2016-2021 Ph.D Scholarship.
The authors thank the ILSI North American Lipid Committee for providing travel support to enable collaborative writing meetings and for facilitating input from fatty acid research experts worldwide. Special gratitude goes to Barbara Lyle, who served as the ILSI liaison and kept the project on track. The authors thank the input of the experts who provided suggestions on the first draft of the manuscript: Graham Burdge, Philip Calder, Kevin Fritsche, William Harris, David Klurfeld, David Ma, Michael McBurney, Ronald Mensink, Marion Neuhouser, Jack Odle, Marius Smuts, and Kuan-Pin Su. The content of the final publication is the responsibility of the authors.
The authors’ responsibilities were as follows—all authors: contributed original writing and approved the final version of the manuscript. All authors declare no conflicts of interest.
The authors extend their appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University for funding the work through the research group project No. (RGP-073).
DSR (Deanship of Scientific Research) at King Saud University for funding the work through the research group project No. (RGP-073).
All data and materials of this work are available from the corresponding author on request.
Authors are grateful to the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan for providing funding (No. 106-1822-Bm6-05) to accomplish this piece of work successfully and also extend thanks to Monash University, Australia for collaborative research.
The authors acknowledge their gratitude to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of Serbia, project number III46013.
The authors wish to thank An-Najah National University for its support to carry out this work and also acknowledge Dr. Saja Darwish for her help in the language revision and also Shamaa Abdulah and Intissar Hammad for their help in the collection process of the studied plant.
This work was supported by a grant from the Center for Environmental Health Research, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, Project No. 88-01-46-8661. The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.
Preparation of this manuscript were made possible by grants from OGIC-IBioIC, and the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative to the ECOGIG and the ADDOMEx consortia.
The authors are grateful to Professor J.E. Moreton from University of Maryland for providing language help and would like to acknowledge the Division of Entomology, National Institute of Health of Thailand, Department of Medical Sciences, Thailand, for their supply of the gravid female
  
This work was funded by The Research Council of Norway as part of the research project “Total utilization of raw materials in the supply chain for food with a bio-economical perspective (CYCLE)” (
  
We are thankful to the Director, CSIR-CIMAP, Lucknow, India for rendering essential research facilities and support. YK, OP, and HT acknowledge the UGC, CSIR, and ICMR, New Delhi, India for the fellowship support through SRF (RGNF; UGC), PA-III (BSC-0121; GENESIS), and SRF (ICMR), respectively. We also acknowledge the CSIR, New Delhi, India for financial support to the Bioinformatics lab through networking project BSC-0121 (GENESIS). We also acknowledge the team ICT Division, CSIR-CIMAP, Lucknow for constant IT support. The CIMAP communication number is CIMAP/PUB/2015/13. We acknowledge the Bito Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Lucknow for database web interface development.
The authors would like to thank CONICYT-PCHA grant No. 2012-21120365 (awarded to J. Espinoza), FONDECYT grant No. 1141245 (awarded to A.Q.), and postdoctoral FONDECYT grant No. 3130327 and CONICYT PAI/ACADEMIA No. 79160109 (awarded to J. Echeverría). M.G.T. and A.U. are grateful to Proyecto Basal USA 1799, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, and USACH.
We would like to thank Bartłomiej Cieślik for performing potassium ion concentration measurements.
The authors gratefully acknowledged the financial support from Science and Technology Research Partnership for Sustainable Development (SATREPS).
This project was supported by National Key Technology Research and Development Program of Ministry of Science and Technology of China (grant no. 2014BAD23B02). We thank Liu Q.R. from the College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, for the identification of the investigated plant.
This project was supported by Progetti di Ateneo-University of Padova 2017-N. C93C1800002600.
This work was supported by grants from Latham Trust Fund, NIH (MD007597) and NSF (IOS-1355034) to TH.
Parts of this study were supported by Polish Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development within the Multiannual Programme “Creating the scientific basis of the biological progress and conservation of plant genetic resources as a source of innovation to support sustainable agriculture and food security of the country 2015–2020”.
We want to thank Tomasz Bojarczuk, Kinga Nowak-Dyjeta and the rest of the employees from Institute of Dendrology (Kórnik, Poland) of the Polish Academy of Sciences; Tomasz Nowak from Arboretum Wojsławice, branch of Wrocław University Botanical Garden; and Łukasz Janik and Antoni Bujwid and Eugeniusz Stanisławski from Leśnictwo Szczodre of Nadleśnictwo Oleśnica Śląska (Szczodre, Poland) for their help with the collection of aspen and poplar samples. We would also like to thank the beekeepers, Tomasz Strojny and Stefan Mikołajewski for collecting the propolis samples.
The authors would like to express our greatest thanks appreciation to Taiwan Forestry Research Institute for providing 
  
This work was supported by the National Science Foundation of China (grant number 31571881) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant number 3127 1861).
We are thankful to Elena P. Dylenova from the Baikal Institute of Nature Management, Siberian Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, for editing the English text of a draft of this manuscript.
This project was supported by the Ministry for Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, Project No III46001 and TR 31089 and company PATENT CO. DOO. The authors would like to thank to Aleksandar Marković for the illustration.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 31070293); the National Eleventh-Five Year Science and Technology Support Program from Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China (No. 2006BAI06A13-06); the Research and Development Program of Science and Technology of Shaanxi Province (No. 2014K-01-02), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. 2017TS035).
This work was supported by the Xinjiang Key Laboratory for Xinjiang Indigenous Medicinal Plants Resource Utilization Grant no. 2016D03027 and funding by the Recruitment Program of Global Expert awarded to Maiwulanjiang.
L. Lvova thanks P. Siciliano and S. Capone from Institute of Microelectronics and Microsystems (C.N.R.-I.M.M.), Lecce, Italy for provided wine samples and useful discussion on experiment planning. 
The authors are grateful to Dr. Enrica Cimarelli, President of APPO Marche, for providing the 
  
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant #81601573), National Social Science Foundation of China (grant #14BTQ032), National Population and Health Scientific Data Sharing Program of China, the National Key Research and Development Program of China (grant #2016YFC0901901), and the Key Laboratory of Medical Information Intelligent Technology Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. The authors thank Hangzhou Sovell Technology Development Company Limited for providing the iPlate system solution and valuable discussion on the study.
The authors are grateful to the financial support by Ministry of Science and Technology of Taiwan (MOST-105-2320-B-182-010-MY3) and Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Keelung (CMRPG2G0661-3).
The authors are also grateful for the technical help received from Päivi Yltervo during the analyses using GC-MS.
This work has been supported in part by Croatian Science Foundation under Project no. HRZZ-IP-2014-09-6897.
This paper was derived from a Ph. D. thesis entitled “Explanation of Paralytic Ileus according to Traditional Persian Medicine” which was supported by the School of Traditional Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
We would like to thank Bharat B. Aggarwal, Founding Director, Inflammation Research Institute, San Diego, CA, USA and Former Professor of Experimental Therapeutics, Cancer Medicine and Immunology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
This work was supported by the Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch of the Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. We would like to thank Ms. Amiri at the Toxicology Lab of Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch for her support. 

  
We gratefully thankful from Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Milano-Bicocca for using some appliances such as tensiometer and also from Faculty of Life and Health Sciences, University of Ulster for using ESI-MS.
We are grateful for financial support from KACST, Saudi Arabia and EPSRC (EP/N009924/1). Yuqiang Yan thanks for a scholarship from the China Scholarship Council. We thank Professor Jason Davis for invaluable support in allowing access to the Dynamic Light Scattering equipment.
This study was supported by grants from Science, Technology and Innovation Commission of Shenzhen (JCYJ20170817173608483 and JCYJ20160229210327924); National Natural Science Foundation of China (81673649); Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province (2016A030313007); Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (GRF12125116); Hong Kong Baptist University (FRG1/16-17/048 and FRG2/17-18/032); Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (2017-JYB-JS-057); and a contract research grant from Defond Electrical Industries Limited.
This study has been financed by the Ministerio de Economía y Competitividad; Subdirección General de Proyectos de Investigación; Convocatoria de Ayudas a Proyectos de I+D+i; Research Challenges and Program-Oriented Societal Challenges 2014-2017, reference number AGL2013-42989-R-AR. The authors also thank the Central Service for Experimental Research of the University of Valencia (SCSIE) for providing the gas chromatography–mass spectrometry equipment and the Colección Española de Cultivos Tipo (CECT) for providing equipment for molecular identification of strains.
We thank members of the Boyer Lab who assisted with specimen collection and provided helpful feedback on the project, either as full‐time researchers in Summer 2016 or through enrollment in the Fall 2016 iteration of Biology 476: Research Biodiversity and Evolution (Raine Ikagawa, Dan Klonowski, Eva Larsen, Alex Lewanski, and Maddy Olson). Kasey Fowler‐Finn (St. Louis University) collected and shared specimens from Missouri. Mike Anderson (Macalester College) assisted with statistical analyses and provided helpful feedback on the project. Peter Tiffin and two anonymous reviewers provided helpful feedback that improved the manuscript.
This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (31702069), Natural Science Foundation of Jiangxi Province (20141BBG70002, 20161BAB214179), Department of Education of Jiangxi Province (KJLD14079), Department of Science and Technology of Jiangxi Province (20142BCB24007), and Gannan Normal University (15zb09).
The authors acknowledge the financial support from PRODER (Contract no 53988), co‐financed by FAEDER, and from project UID/QUI/50006/2013‐POCI/01/0145/FEDER/007265 with financial support from FCT/MEC and FEDER, under the Partnership Agreement PT2020, and the PhD Grant‐SFRH/BD/81036/2011 attributed to Carla S.P. Santos.
This work by SS was supported by a grant from the Ministry of Science, Research and the Arts of Baden-Württemberg (Az: 7533-10-5-85A) as part of the BBW ForWerts Graduate Program. The MS and NMR experiments in this work were funded by the Helmholtz Programme BioInterfaces in Technology and Medicine (BIFTM) of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) and the DFG instrumental facility Pro
  
This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 41673112, No. 41541025) and Open Research Fund Program of Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Eco-Environmental Science for Yellow River Delta, Binzhou, Shandong (2015KFJJ01).
The authors acknowledge the efforts of the Laboratory Technologists of the NASENIC Research Centre, Akure, Nigeria and the Laboratory Technologists of Chemistry Department of the University of Ilorin, Kwara State, Nigeria in carrying out the gas chromatographic analysis and the EDXRF Spectrophotometer analysis during this research work. The authors are grateful to Daniel for his contributions during the research work.
The financial support for this research from Xiamen Municipal Bureau of Science and Technology, China (No. 3502Z20151228) is gratefully acknowledged. The authors are grateful to Keng-Hsien Cheng for providing plant materials.
We are grateful to anonymous reviewers for providing constructive criticism on the manuscript.
Claudia Rebeca Rivera Yáñez is a doctoral student from Programa de Doctorado en Ciencias Biomédicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) and received fellowship 254616 from CONACYT. The authors are grateful to Francisco Rodolfo González Díaz for his technical assistance. This research was funded by the UNAM PAPIIT IN212317 project.
This study was funded by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-Based Industry Malaysia through the NRGS research grant (NH0513D019). Special thanks to the UKM DrugBio Research Group and laboratory staff for their assistance.
The authors wish to thank Ewelina Szabela, and Karolina Ogłodzińska, for their preliminary analytical work.
This work was supported by the Open Foundation of the Key Laboratory of Xinjiang (2015KL023) and High-Tech Projects of Xinjiang (201517106).
Authors would like to thank FAPEAP and CNPQ for the financial support.
The authors would like to acknowledge Danny Boyce and the Joe Brown Aquaculture Research Building staff for their valuable help with fish rearing and sampling.
This work would not have been possible without the financial support of the Instruct-ERIC R&D Award APPID 300.
The authors are grateful to the Directorate of Traditional and Modern Medicine Research, EPHI, for the support in conducting the research smoothly. The authors would like to thank Clinical Microbiology Research Case Team, EPHI, for providing all the clinical isolate microorganisms used in the present study. This study was supported by Ministry of Finance and Economic Development through Ethiopian Public Health Institute [Grant no. 342/02/01/01/008].
This work was supported by the Slovak Research and Development Agency under Contract no. APVV-14-0397 and by Ministry of Education, Grant VEGA 1/0574/15.
The authors would like to thank Azza Hassan; associate professor of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt for her help in histopathological examination and lesion score evaluation.
Authors are grateful to the project TWAS 15-259 RG/BIO/AF/AC, which supported the study on resistance monitoring. Authors also thank Souleymane BADO from International Atomic Energy Agency (AIEA) and Jean ZIDA for editing this manuscript.
This work was partially supported through national funds provided by FCT/MCTES—Foundation for Science and Technology from the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education (PIDDAC) and European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) through the COMPETE—Programa Operacional Factores de Competitividade (POFC) programme, under the Strategic Funding UID/Multi/04423/2013, in the framework of the programme PT2020.
This research was financially supported by the Shandong Science and Technology Program (ZR2014HM018). We are thankful to the reviewers for helpful comments.
This research has been supported by an internal grant from the Universidad Estatal Amazónica, Ecuador and grant (Acuerdo Especifico de Cooperacion UPS-UNIFE, 2015) of Universidad Politecnica Salesiana, Ecuador. The authors are grateful to Immacolata Maresca for her contribution to prepare figures for the first revision of manuscript.
This research was supported by Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) and Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES).
This work was supported by the projects IGA 6/2015/591, VEGA 1/0873/15, KEGA 022UK-4/2015, APVV-0550-11 and analytical experiments were carried out in the Toxicological and Antidoping Center at the Faculty of Pharmacy Comenius University in Bratislava.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 81402304), the Science and Technology Planning Project of Jiangxi Province (Grant No. 20133BAB20009, 20141BBG70002, 20142BCB24007, and KJLD14079), and Project of 2011 Jiangxi Collaborative Innovation Center, China. We thank professor Jun Xue, graduate students Ke Liu and Weihui Deng for technical assistance during this study.
This work is dedicated to the memory of Maria Paola Belloni Regazzo, who, back in 1999 had the idea of looking into biological activities of 
  
The study was supported by The University of Salerno, FARB 2015.
CM is supported by the Institute Strategic Programs ‘Understanding and Exploiting Plant and Microbial Secondary Metabolism’ (BB/J004596/1) and ‘Molecules from Nature’ (BB/P012523/1) from the Biotechnological and Biological Science Research Council (BBSRC). CM thanks Andrew Davis and Phil Robinson (John Innes Centre, Norwich) for photography.
The authors thank CNPq, FAPITEC/SE, CAPES, FINEP, and RENORBIO for their financial support for this work.
The authors extend their appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University for funding the work through the research group project No. RGP-073.
We gratefully appreciate Department of Chemistry, Marine College, Shandong University for facilities and encouragement. We especially thank Yao Xiao for critically reading the manuscript.
This work was supported by grants from the Tibetan autonomous region science and technology projects, China (Z2012Z01G03), Talents development program of Mount Qomolangma Scholar, Tibet University, China, and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81673690). We thank Wei-dong Zhu and Lhaqiong for identifying the 
  
We are very grateful to all QuESSA partners, who actively collaborated in the development of the common protocols. We thank Massimo Sbrana, Giacomo Nardi, Fernando Pellegrini and all the workers of Centro di Ricerche Agro-Ambientali ‘Enrico Avanzi’ for their contribution to the fieldwork. This study would not have been possible without the collaboration of all farmers. We especially thank them for sharing their visions and knowledge with us. Lastly, we want to thank Marino Quaranta for his help in bee identification.
We acknowledge project funding provided by the National Natural Science Foundation (21703270, 21431009, 91127025), the National Key R&D Program of China (2018YFA0208500, 2017YFA0206900), and the Key Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (KJZD-EW-M01).
N.M. thank to Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT–Portugal) for the Strategic project ref. UID/BIM/04293/2013 and “NORTE2020-Programa Operacional Regional do Norte” (NORTE-01-0145-FEDER-000012).
I appreciate the CIRCLE team for the fellowship opportunity and training given to me which enabled me conduct this research. The management and staff of Biochemistry Department University of Ibadan, International Institute of Tropical agriculture, Ibadan and National Root Crops Research Institute, Umudike are deeply appreciated for providing the laboratory space and equipment used for this research. 
We would like to thank the National Key Science & Technology Special Projects of China (No. 2016ZX05048003) and the Key Program Foundation of Sinopec (No. P15031) for providing financial support to this research work.
This study was partially supported by the Internal Grant Agency (IGA) of the Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Czech University of Life Sciences Prague, Czech Republic. Project No. 20154247/2015.
The authors acknowledge the Instituto da Conservação da Natureza e das Florestas (ICNF) and particularly Eng João Sanches (Mata Experimental do Escaroupim (MEE)) from the Centro Nacional de Sementes Florestais (CENASEF) for kindly allowing the sampling of all studied species from the MEE.
The authors wish to thank Beto Rosado for supplying the cactus pear samples for the study, and to Andressa Soldera da Silva and Melina Seyfried for their help with the in vitro assays.
This project is sponsored by Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (LY13H280011).
Financial support was granted by the German Research Foundation - DFG (ER 786/1-1 to S.E.). Further, we acknowledge the financial support of the Open Access Publication Fund of the Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg. We would like to thank Sandra Ehrenberg for help with lab and bee work; Karsten Seidelmann for providing the EAG system, for the kind introduction and support with adjusting the system and method to honey bees, and commenting on a previous version of the manuscript; Thomas Schmitt and Manfred Ayasse for fruitful discussion of the EAG data; Alice Séguret for critical linguistic suggestions and helpful comments, and three anonymous reviewers for their ideas and suggestions in improving a previous version of the manuscript.
All authors contributed to this work via scientific discussion. MH planned and performed experiments, data analysis and drafted the manuscript. AZ performed the wet chemistry analyses and analysed the corresponding data. GP designed the study, coordinated the experiments and drafted the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors would like to thank David Crônier and Olivier Delfosse for their help in performing the chemical characterisation of the samples. Xavier Falourd and Loïc Foucat from the Biopolymers-Structural Biology (BiBS) platform (BIA laboratory, Nantes, France) are acknowledged for conducting the low-field NMR measurements.
The authors declare they have no competing interests.
All data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published article.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Ph.D. scholarship of MH was provided by Région Grand-Est. This work was made possible through the funding from the French National Research Agency (LIGNOPROG project ANR-14-CE05-0026).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
This research was supported by the Conselho Nacional de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento Tecnológico (CNPq), Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Fundação de Amparo ao Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico do Estado do Ceará (FUNCAP), Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (FINEP), and Centro Universitário Christus (UniChristus).
The authors acknowledge financial support given by Petrobras SIX, São Mateus do Sul, PR – Agricultural Shale Project at Instituto Agronômico do Paraná (IAPAR). K.C.G.P. Goes acknowledges scholarship from Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES) at the Universidade Estadual de Londrina, Paraná, Brazil. D. S. Andrade acknowledges Fundação Araucária (Grant 42306/2014).
The authors thank CAPES (Comissão de Formação de Pessoal de Nível Superior, Brazil) for the Master fellowship of Carolina Bedoya-Serna and Laticínio Imperial Jureia (Monte Belo, MG, Brazil) for the donation of cheese samples.
This work was carried out in the context of the Blue Diversion Project and the Blue Diversion AUTARKY Project, funded by the 
  
We thank Drs. Michael R. Hamblin and Ji Wang for stimulating comments and discussions from Massachusetts General Hospital and the staff at the photopathology core at Wellman Center for Photomedicine for assisting transmission electron microscopy and histopathology.
Conceived and designed the experiments: AMSP BWB SMZ SCF. Performed the experiments: MCA ESP CH FRGS. Analyzed the data: BWB MCA SHTC SNS SKH. Taxonomic identification: FRGS. Contributed with reagents/materials/analysis tools SMZ AMSP SCF BWB. Wrote the paper: MCA SMZ AMSP BWB SNS. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors are grateful to Dr. Luciana Rossini Pinto from the Campinas Agriculture Institute (IAC) (Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil) for technical support with the LI-COR Biosciences 4300 DNA Analyzer.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article and its additional files.
Our data is available as Additional file 
   
Not applicable.
Sampling permission, for both locations, were obtained from by the Brazilian Council for the Administration and Management of Genetic Patrimony (CGEN) of the Brazilian Ministry of the Environment (MMA) by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq—CGEN/MMA Process #: 02001.005059/2011-71).
Fundação de Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP) (Process # 2011/11756-3).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Authors thank Claudine Diedericks, Victoria Jideani, Jasper Zwinkels and Melania Dandadzi for their help in the execution of this work.
Yara Alzahid acknowledges the graduate fellowship provided by Saudi Aramco. The authors also acknowledge the South Australian node of the Australian National Fabrication Facility under the National Collaborative Research Infrastructure Strategy for making the silicon mould and the Microfluidics laboratory at the School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering at UNSW for their support with generating the PDMS micromodels.
Authors are thankful to Prof. Uniyal, Department of Botany, University of Delhi for helping in the identification of the plant. Authors express their sincere thanks to the Director, CIFE, Mumbai and Mr. V. Harikrishna, Senior Scientist, CIFE, Rohtak Center for providing the ponds for experiment and other logistic supports during experiment.
The corresponding author is grateful to the World Academy of Sciences (TWAS) for financial support through the individual TWAS research Grant no. FR3240293337 for timely completion of this research.
The authors acknowledge Universiti Putra Malaysia for the facilities and financial assistance provided throughout this research under the Special Graduate Research Allowance.
The authors would like to thank Dr. Lina Adwan and Mr. Shadi K'aibni for their help in performing GC-MS analysis. Also the authors thank the members of Faculty of Graduate Studies at An-Najah National University for their support.
The authors would like to thank the professors from NAPO (Center for Analysis and Organic Research at UFSM) for providing the GC/MS chromatograms and spectra, A.F. Morel (Department of Chemistry at UFSM) for the assessment of the n-alkane series, and Renato Zacchia (Botanical Department of the Federal University of Santa Maria) for providing the identification of
  
This study was funded by Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) of Brazilian Government.
The authors wish to acknowledge the overall supports enjoyed from the Universiti Putra Malaysia, indeed it contributes immensely to the success of this work.
This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31602131), China Agriculture Research System (CARS-46) and Da Bei Nong Group promoted Project for Young Scholar of HZAU (No. 2017DBN014).
National Natural Science Foundation of China (31602131), China Agriculture Research System (CARS-46) and Da Bei Nong Group promoted Project for Young Scholar of HZAU (No. 2017DBN014).
All data used to arrival at conclusions of this paper are present in this manuscript. The raw data is available from the authors on request.
This work was financially supported by the Key Program of National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 21436008), the General Program of National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51372162), Young Scientists Fund of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 21506145) and the Natural Science Foundation for Young Scientists of Shanxi Province, China (Grant No. 2015021032).
This research is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31772612) and CARS-35. We also acknowledge Shandong Zhongda Agriculture Science and Technology Co., Ltd. (Binzhou, China) who supplies us these two mixed plant oils.
Thanks to Sheng Wan, who is the project manager from Sinopec, for collecting pipe sections and providing the compositions of transmission gas and condensate water, and for agreeing to publish this article. Thanks to Tingting Li, Qiushi Deng, and Yujiao Zhao for participating in some of the experimental work.
V.S. wish to thanks the “Piano della Ricerca di Ateneo 2016–2018”, University of Catania, Italy, for financial support for gas barrier measurements.
Publication supported by Wrocław Centre of Biotechnology, programme the Leading National Research Centre (KNOW) for years 2014–2018.
The authors thank the Director-General of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) for his support and permission to publish this paper. The authors gratefully acknowledge the technical assistance of Nagendran Balasundram, Adli Izam Zulkifly and Fatmawati Othman from the Nutrition Research Group of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB). The authors also thank Leow Soon Sen from the Advanced Biotechnology and Breeding Centre of MPOB for helping in the preparation of the manuscript. Special thanks to Fuzina Nor Hussien, who previously from Universiti Putra Malaysia for assisting us in animal study. 
This research was funded by Romanian-EEA Research Program operated by MEN under the EEA Financial Mechanism 2009–2014 grant number (project contract) 1SEE/2014. The PLA NATIVIA
  
We thank CAPES (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior) and CNPq (Conselho Científico de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico) for the PhD scholarship to the first author, granted during the development of this work. T. C. H. Cole and J. Gravendyck kindly provided support with language editing and provided valuable comments.
This work was supported by the Office of the Chief Scientist, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Israel, grant no. 20-06-0037. The authors are grateful to Dr. Yafit Itzhaik Alkotzer for her scientific advice and Dr. Alex Protasov for the larvae photographing.
SP, GV, MC, and MP are members of the National Research Council of Argentina (CONICET).
The authors are grateful to Sotirios Vasileiadis for a number of scripts used for HTS data elaboration, and to Prof Mariangela Girlanda and Dr. Samuele Voyron for helping in Fungal metabarcoding analysis.
The author thanks Rajan Sah and Kevin Campbell for useful discussions.
The author gratefully acknowledges funding from the National Institutes of Health (R01 GM120260 and R21 GM126476 to J.L. Robertson).
The author declares no competing financial interests.
Olaf S. Andersen served as editor.
The Authors gratefully acknowledge the support of Morteza Golmohammadi and Hormoz F. Nasiri in the 
  
GC-MSanalysis were performed at the “Centro Interdipartimentale di servizio di Analisi Strumentale” of the University of Naples Federico II. The assistance of the staff is acknowledged.
The study was supported by The University of Salerno.
The authors thank Embrapa Rice and Bean, and the Federal Institute of Southeastern Minas Gerais [Instituto Federal do Sudeste de Minas Gerais] for technical support.
The authors thank the technical staff for their contribution in laboratory sample collection and processing.
D.A. and J.T.T. received a Summer Research Grant from Microbiome Otago, a University of Otago Research Theme, to conduct research on a related topic. 
The authors LT, RM and IMB acknowledge the financial support from the MARISURF Project funded by the European Union Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020 under Grant Agreement No. 635340. VUI acknowledges Ulster University Vice Chancellor’s Research Scholarship.
The authors acknowledge the financial support from China and Zhejiang Province.
A.M.G. recognize the financial support by a grant from the Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, UEFISCDI, project number 45PCCDI/2018-PN-III-P1-1.2-PCCDI-2017-0749-Nanostructuri bioactive pentru strategii terapeutice inovatoare. I.N. and V.G. acknowledge with thanks to National Authority for Research and Innovation in the frame of Nucleus Programme–contract 3N/2018.
Sincere thanks to Mikaela Wilson from Natura Soap Company for assistance with soap manufacturing according to commercial specifications.
The authors also appreciate the authentication of the plant samples by Jia Lingyun, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University.
We thank Simon Partridge, from Liwen Bianji, Edanz Editing China (
  
We are grateful for the administrative and financial support received from the University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
The authors thank Q.R., Liu (College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China) for identifying the plant material.
The authors are grateful to Mayri A. Diaz De Rienzo, Liverpool John Moores University: Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdomand Hesham Salman, Bionanoplus Company, Spain for providing the bacterial standard strain studied in this research. We are also grateful for Rami Ziara, Nebraska University-Lincoln, Nebraska, USA, for providing pharmaceutical grade essential oils for the study. Farag acknowledges the funding received from Alexander von Humboldt foundation, Germany to his laboratory.
Financial support of the Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research is gratefully acknowledged. Financial disclosures: none declared.
The study was funded by Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.
All data and materials are contained and described within the manuscript.
We thank Celine Farcet, Joan Elstein and Catherine Marion (L’OREAL) and Benny Lyvén (RISE) for supporting this study.
The authors thank the Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais – FAPEMIG, Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior – CAPES, and Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico – CNPq (Project BJT 401581/2014-4) for financial support. CZ, GLS, and RI also thank CNPq for fellowships (306067/2016-1, 312247/2016-8, and 307011/2015-1). The Center of Microscopy at the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (
  
The authors greatly appreciate the help of their colleagues at the Department of Food Engineering, URI Erechim, RS, and CAPES, Erechim, Brazil.
We are grateful to Bedrocan BV (Veendam, Netherlands) for supplying 
  
This study was supported by the “Ministerium für Innovation, Wissenschaft und Forschung des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen”, the “Regierenden Bürgermeister von Berlin - inkl. Wissenschaft und Forschung”, and the “Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung”, also in form of the Leibniz-Research-Cluster (grant number: 031A360E). None of the funding bodies played any role in conception and design of the study, or in collection, analysis and interpretation of the data.
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the Thematic laboratory of Chemistry and Natural Products of National Institute of Amazonian Research to all support provided through the execution of this research.
This research was financially supported by Projects Financing Institution (FINEP) of Brazilian Innovation Agency (grant number 01140113.030071/13). The funder had no role in the design of this study, data collection and analysis, and in writing the manuscript.
The dataset of the present study may be available from the corresponding author upon request.
Special thanks are extended to the Centre for Environmental Management, Faculty of Science and Technology at Federation University, Australia for the provision of financial support, and we gratefully acknowledge Wendy Cloke of Federation University for providing access to critical laboratory equipment. We thank Mr. Allan Adair for reviewing this manuscript, and we note the invaluable advice given by Certified Organics Pty Ltd regarding the pine oil products tested in this project. Parks Victoria kindly allowed access to the field site at Cobbledicks Road, and we also thank Dr. Steve Sinclair from the Department of Environment, Water, Land and Planning for his support and advice during this project.
We gratefully thank Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) and ADNOC Onshore (previously known as Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Petroleum Operations Ltd) for funding this work. 
This work was financially supported by JSPS Grant-in-aid for Encouragement of Young Scientist (Grant Number JP16K16233). We acknowledge the Kinu-aqua station for kindly providing the activated sludge. We also appreciate the contribution of Yumiko Kayashima, Akemi Katayama, Maki Yanagisawa and Kazuyuki Matsuo (National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)) for the operation of the MBR-RO system.
The authors would like to thank Dr. Daniela Barile for use of equipment for sugar quantification and Henrik Jørgen Andersen (Arla Foods) and Dr. J. (Hans) Van Leeuwen for helpful advice on fermentation.
This work was partially supported by the Sustainable AgTech Innovation Center (SATIC), Arla Foods Company and Ivory Tower Inc..
The datasets used and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
The authors are grateful to the National Council for Science and Technology (CONACyT) of Mexico for the graduate scholarship for José Daniel Wicochea Rodríguez. Special thanks to Cécile Barron, UMR IATE to her help and advices in the construction of the CLS model.
The authors are thankful to CENAUREMN (Northeastern Center for Application and Use of NMR, Ceará, Brazil) and the Brazilian government agencies CNPq and FUNCAP for support.
Not applicable.
The authors acknowledge Mr. Alexander Whaley of LECO Africa for kind assistance with the use of their equipment and application laboratory.
We thank the Joachim Daumann, Anna-Luise Kuppinger, and Dutsareeya Kusterer for competent cultivation and maintenance of the plant material used in this study, as well as Sandra Kooß and Adriane Piechatzek for technical support in DNA extraction and amplification of barcodes. A Ph.D. student fellowship by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) to Daniela Rios Rodriguez is acknowledged. Cerovac Ltd. in Bretten, Germany is acknowledged for providing the custom built cultivation chambers for the light quality experiment, Dr. Vinod P. Upadhyay (Haridwar, India) for contributing valuable traditional knowledge on the relationship of Vana Tulsi.
We would like to especially thanks Ersatz Professor Michael D Burgett for his kind supports and generosity to BAC group and Paul Page for assisting in the volatile identification.
The authors acknowledge the financial support of the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness (Project AGL2014-52928-C2) and the European Regional Development Fund (FEDER).
Financial support was provided by the project “Trophic assessment of ecosystem services provided by carabid beetles in agricultural land” financed by the Austrian Science Fund FWF (P28578‐B25). For their valuable assistance in animal keeping and the feeding experiments, we thank Matthias Labeck, Markus Neurauter, Michelle Gruber, and Marcel Schön, participating 2014 and 2015 in the program “Young Talents—Internships for Students” financed by the Austrian Research Promotion Agency FFG. Victoria Hoffman contributed significantly to the screening of the samples from the mixed‐diet experiment during her Erasmus stay in Austria.
The Project was supported by the Proyecto Fondecyt de Iniciación (No. 11170008) and Proyecto FIC-Regional (No. VIP30345879-0). We thank Rachael Jiménez-Lange from the Academic Writing Center at the Programa de Idiomas of the Universidad de Talca.
The Editors would like to thank all authors of this Special Issue of Nanomaterials for their excellent contributions. We gratefully acknowledge all the colleagues who served as reviewers for this Special Issue, as their critical contribution was instrumental in raising the overall quality of the publications. We would like to express our deep appreciation to the publishing team for their constant support and assistance.
We thank Anne Surget for her help in a first attempt at feed extraction, Le Gouessant for feed formulation, Frederic Terrier for his precious help in feed preparation and in fish rearing, Stéphane Panserat for his relevant advice about the origin of compounds and Elodie Lesquin for preparing the feedstuff extracts.
We thank Monika Graff and the greenhouse team for support and Katrin Schulz and Katja Krüger for excellent technical assistance.
The authors wish to thank L. Mattoli (Aboca, S.p.A) for providing 
  
APC was sponsored by MDPI.
The authors are grateful to the flow cytometry core of FIOCRUZ-Bahia for collecting the flow cytometric data. This work was financially supported by Brazilian agencies Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq), Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Amazonas (FAPEAM), and Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado da Bahia (FAPESB).
This work was supported by The Tunisian High Ministry of High Education and Research.
We thank Andrea Hilpert, Ursula Lebong, Christian Storm, Sonja Elberich, Danny Rothe and Tim Bergmann for experimental assistance as well as Nico Blüthgen for helpful discussion.
AB was supported by the German Nation Academic Foundation (Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes) and is a Simons Fellow of the Life Sciences Research Foundation (LSRF). This study was supported by the German Science Foundation (DFG; HE 4593/5–1).
All experimental data can be found in the Additional file 
   
The authors gratefully acknowledge the staff of the Experimental Station in the Department of Animal and Poultry Production, Faculty of Agriculture, South Valley University, for their generous assistance during the course of the study as well as N. Wahl and P. Jacquemien for their excellent support in the laboratory. Partial financial support was provided by funds allocated to the 
  
We thank LetPub (
  
This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 81473323) and the Key R&D Program in Shandong Province (No. 2015GSF119025).
This study was part of a Pharm. D thesis (Grant No. 930209) which was financially supported by Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
This research was supported by 
  
The authors wish to thank Mr. Paolo Giannotti for the technical assistance, the panelists and the volunteers who participated to the repellence tests.
Mr. Naveed Ahmad is very grateful to National Institute of Lasers and Optronics (NILOP) Islamabad for providing the necessary research facilities.
This paper was supported (in part) by Research Funds of Kwangju Women’s University in 2018 (KWUI18-035).
We are most grateful to all respondents for their hospitality and willingness to share their knowledge of fleagrass with us. We are also most grateful to Mr. Congde Li for his language help and Prof. A. B. Cunningham for his suggestions. We are also very thankful to Prof. Youkai Xu from XTBG, Prof. Zhizhi Du from KIB, Dr Qing Yang from KIB and Ms Chen Wang from KIB for their help in the field.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China [31670337] and Plant germplasm resources innovation project of Chinese Academy of Sciences [ZSZC-012].
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
The authors wish to thank the veterinarians who have contributed to this work by collecting samples; they also thank all the staff of the Regional Veterinary Laboratory of El-Tarf (LVR el-Tarf) and more specifically the Director of LVR El-Tarf: Mr. Houner and the staff of the food hygiene service. The research was funded by the first author (Narimene Mansouri) and the Laboratory Research of Epidemiologic monitoring, Health, Production, Reproduction, Experimentation and Cellular Therapy of Domestic and Wild Animals, Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Chadli Bendjedid, El-Tarf, Algeria.
This work was supported by grants from the Tunisian “Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research”.
We thank Tao Li for advice on analyzing GC-MS data with PARADISe.
The authors thank Prof. Lingchong You (Biomedical Engineering Department, Duke University), Chi Wu (Department of chemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong), and To Ngai (Department of chemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong) for their helpful discussions and guidance. This work was funded by the Shenzhen Peacock Team Project (KQTD2016112915000294), the Shenzhen Science and Technology Innovation Committee (JCYJ20170413153329565), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31770111), and the Research Instrument Development Project from Chinese Academy of Sciences (YJKYYQ20170063).
The authors would like to thank the financial support provided by the institution FUNCAP.
We would like to thank our colleague, Laban Rutto for the critical review of this manuscript. This article is a contribution of the Virginia State University (VSU), Agricultural Research Station (Journal Article Series Number 353).
The authors thank Simon Dawkins, Director of the Oil Mallee Association of Australia, for providing the 
  
The authors thank Linda Northrup for valuable English corrections.
The authors thank the Chief Research Officer at SEIPASA, Francisco Espinosa Escrig, for carrying out the stability tests and providing the emulsifiable concentrates of winter savory and peppermint essential oils for in vivo assays and the Central Service for Experimental Research of the University of Valencia (SCSIE) for providing the Greenhouse and Gas Chromatography- Mass Spectrometry equipment.
We are grateful to the members of the Kichwa community of Pakayaku, Luzmila Gayas, the People’s Assembly of Pakayaku, and the collaborating ayllus (families), for their cooperation during the field work. M.V. Gil Alvarez (Organic Chemistry Department, University of Extremadura) assisted us with the chemical drawing software.
This research was carried out thanks to the funding from “PSR 2007/2013 Misura 214.5, Progetto RISGENSAR”, Regione Autonoma Sardegna (Italy). This work was carried out as part of M.P.R. PhD thesis.
The author would like to thank Pietro Santamaria for his helpful comment on this review.
The authors thank the Bioprocess, Nutrition, and Dietetics Laboratories of the Universidad del Atlántico, and the dairy and food laboratory of the Universidad Libre sectional Barranquilla and Materials School of Universidad del Valle, for their substantial contribution in the experimental development.
The authors thank Emanuele G. Pirrone for technical assistance. The Department of Biotechnology, Chemistry and Pharmacy has been granted by the Minister of Education, University and Research (MIUR) as “Department of Excellence 2018–2022”.
The authors would like to thank Ryan Smith, PhD and his lab for the continual supply of 
  
HWCA carried out the experiments, analyzed the data and drafted the manuscript. RFSA assisted in the performing of experiments and discussion of results. DMR and DRR assisted in statistical analysis and discussion of results and writing the manuscript. CAAS participated in the design of the study and coordination. GMCT conceived and supervised the study and reviewed the final manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors are grateful to State University of Paraiba (UEPB) for teaching qualification, and to Nucleus of Research in Environmental Sciences and Biotechnology (NPCIAMB), Catholic University of Pernambuco, Pernambuco, Brazil, for the use of laboratories.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The study was supported by National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Level Education Personnel Fellowship (CAPES), Foundation for the Support of Science and Technology of the State of Pernambuco (FACEPE), Brazil.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors are grateful for the technical help received from Päivi Yltervo during the analyses using GC-MS. The authors would also like to thank Ralf Damaschke for the feedback on the language in this manuscript.
The authors are grateful for the blood samples kindly donated by the Dalton Cunha Hemocenter and for Silvia S. Guterres for the guidance on the muchoadhesive study.
We would like to thank Bottenvikens Bryggeri for providing the BSG used in this work. We would also like to acknowledge Kentaro Umeki and Albert Bach Oller from Energy Engineering, Division of Energy Science, Department of Engineering Sciences and Mathematics, Luleå University of Technology, Luleå, Sweden for providing the GC-FID apparatus.
The authors would like to thank CAPES and CNPq for financial support.
The authors would like to thank Prof. Omar M. Sabry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, for his valuable discussion.
The authors would like to express their great appreciation to Gattefossé (Saint Priest, France) for donating sample materials.
The authors thank Karmacharya Jenisha and Vo Dang Khoa for technical assistance on the pharmacokinetic study.
Not applicable.
This work has been funded by the University of Messina and Fondazione Imbesi (Messina, Italy). The funding body was not involved in the design of the study and collection, analysis, and interpretation of data, as well as and in writing the manuscript.
The 
   
Data can be accessed at the University of Messina.
The authors thank CNPq (Process n° 423478/2016-8) for financial support.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
The authors acknowledge the financial support from the Brazilian agencies CNPq, CAPES, FACEPE, and State University of Feira de Santana (UEFS).
H.F. acknowledges partial support from the 
  
The authors thank 
  
The authors are grateful to the Govan Mbeki Research Development Centre (GMRDC), University of Fort Hare, and the DST-NRF Centre of Excellence in Food Security (Project ID: 170275) for financial assistance.
The authors wish to thank the Salesian Polytechnic University of Ecuador (Center of Research and Valuation of Biodiversity, CIVABI) for financial support. The research was also supported by FAR2018 grant of the University of Ferrara, grant of “Fondazione Dott. Carlo Fornasini” (Poggio Renatico, Ferrara) (2015). This research was carried out thanks to a bilateral cooperation agreement between the Salesian Polytechnic University of Ecuador (Center of Research and Valuation of Biodiversity, CIVABI) and the University of Ferrara, Italy (Pharmaceutical biology Lab.).
This work was funded by the Project of Key Technologies of High-Yield and Carbon Dioxide Emissions in the Full Utilization Process of Industrial Oil Plants (2017WK2021), National Sci-Tech Support Plan (2015BAD15B02), and Hunan Key Science and Technology Program (2016NK1001).
This study was supported by Commission of Scientific Research Projects of Pamukkale University (Project Numbers: 2014 FBE 071).
We thank Andrea Böszörményi for the GC-MS analysis and Prof. László Seress for great help with scanning electron microscopy. This work was financially supported by the Hungarian Government (MFCDiagn, TECH_08-A1-2008-0279) and by the University of Pécs (PTE ÁOK-KA-2013/23; PTE ÁOK-KA-2016-SGY). The present scientific contribution is dedicated to the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the University of Pécs, Hungary.
The authors thank Michiko Abe for the lipid analyses.
The authors would like to acknowledge Chris Cobos for technical support, Joshua Thomas and Melanie McGilton for literature research and manuscript preparation.
Thanks to Aldo Fiorentini for providing Citrus material. 
C.B. (Chahrazed Bekhechi) thanks the University of Corsica for a financial support (Associated Professor, September 2018).
We would like to acknowledge AAU and MWU for financial support of this research project. We would like to extend our gratitude to administration and staff members of Farm Africa of Bale zone, ALHRT, DMIP, Pharmacology Department, CHS and Bacteriology Unit of TASH for assistance in their areas of specialty and allowing us to use laboratory facilities. We would like to thank genuine taxonomist Dr. Melaku Wondafrash for identifying plant samples at National Herbarium (Department of Biology) of AAU. We extend our special thanks to Ato Shafi Mohammed, Ato Kasim Kedir, Mequanint Mitiku, Ato Sultan Mohammed, W/ro Kemeru Waliy, W/ro Nigatua Desta and Ato Deme Birhanu for their respective support during plants collection.
Last, not the least, our special thanks go to Ato Tufa Seboke and W/ro Simegne Terefe for their committed assistance and unreserved encouragement during carrying out this research project.
The research has been funded by Addis Ababa University and Madda Walabu University.
All data and materials of this work are available from the corresponding author on request.
This work was financially supported by the Young Scientists Fund of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31501584), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities of Shaanxi Normal University, China, (2017CSY023 and GK201601007). And this study was also supported by the Nutrition and Functional Food Innovation Team of Institute of Food Science and Technology CAAS; the authors would like to express their appreciation for the assistance provided.
O.J.R. is thankful to the H2020 - ERC-2017-Advanced Grant 
  
This study was financially supported by Young Scientists Fund in National Natural Science Foundation of China (81403102); Key Research Project Plan of Colleges and Universities in Henan Province (19A360001); and the Major Research Plan of Shandong Province (2016GSF202041).
The National Research Foundation and the University of the Witwatersrand Financial Research Committee are thanked for financial support.
We extend our sincere thanks to Alexander I. Vardavas for his invaluable contributions in the preparation of the manuscript.
The present study was funded by Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior, Brazil (CAPES) [Finance Code 001], Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro [E-26/111.252/2014], for Kátia da Silva Calabrese, the Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento Científico do Maranhão [APP-00844/09 and Pronex-241709/2014], Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico [407831/2012.6 and 309885/2017-5] for Ana Lucia Abreu-Silva and [312765/2016-9] for Fernando Almeida-Souza, and CNPq/SECTI/FAPEMA [DCR03438/16] for Fernando Almeida-Souza.
Thanks to Dr Dolds for helping in the identification of the plant. The authors would also like to extend their appreciation to Professor Maryna Van de Venter, Nelson Mandela University for her support with the cell lines, cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory experiments.
We thank technicians Mark Smithers and Henk van Wolferen from NanoLab at University of Twente for the technological supports on scanning electro microscope. H.T. thanks for the financial support from the China Scholarship Council (CSC, file No. 201406890017). S.W. acknowledges his partner group in Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research. X.Z. acknowledges the support of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) and Future Energy Systems (Canada First Research Excellence Fund). We also acknowledge the Netherlands Center for Multi-scale Catalytic Energy Conversion (MCEC) and the 
  
The authors are grateful to the technical assistance offered by the laboratory team at the School of Food Technology, Nutrition and Bioengineering, Makerere University and the volunteers that participated in the study.
Authors thank Mario Cifelli for helpful discussions and Beatrice Massaza from “Agriturismo Santa Annunziata” in San Vincenzo (LI) for providing us part of the extra-virgin olive oil samples.
We thank Martha Borbor, Ramiro Solórzano, Juan Rodríguez, Rosa Malavé and Rubén Román for their technical assistance in this study. We would like to thank Dr. Stanislaus Sonnenholzner for their kind reviewing of the manuscript and suggestions.
The authors would like to express their gratitude to the National Research Fund (NRF) of South Africa and the National Commission of Research Science and Technology (NCRST), Namibia.
The authors are grateful to the NRF, SA and NCRST, Namibia for funding the research.
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
This work would not have been possible without the help and advice from Mr. Joseph Mussey (Texas Mines Venture) who provided us with invaluable insight and guidance regarding epigenetic stratabound sulfur deposits of the Delaware Basin. We thank Mr. Neil O. Yelderman for kindly granting us access to the Damon Mound site, Neal Immega for valuable information about Damon Mound, Piper Poe (UTEP) for assistance in the field, Madalina Jaggi (ETH Zürich) for assistance with isotope analyses of carbonates, and Drs. Gail L. Arnold (UTEP), Mark Engle (USGS), Trinity Hamilton (University of Minnesota), Lin Ma (UTEP), and Jie Xu (UTEP) for insightful comments that helped us shape this manuscript. We would also like to express our gratitude to Dr. Katherine Giles, the members of the Caprock Club, the Institute of Tectonic Studies, and the Salt-Sediment Interaction Research Consortium for their support, encouragement, and stimulating input. Two reviewers provided us with important information about new findings in microbial sulfur cycling, and helpful guidance in making the manuscript more accessible to a broad readership – thank you! Lastly, AL would like to thank the endless love and support of her family and friends.
We thank Julia Sweet and Jessica Hillhouse for their help in the laboratory. We thank two anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments.
Authors thank Nicodemo Passalacqua of the Botany Department at the University of Calabria (Italy) for samples identification.
The authors thank Liuzhu Guo for technical guidance, Xiping Yao for conducting the exposure measurements under various environmental conditions. The support of Tao Guo is also gratefully acknowledged.
The authors thank Amare Seifu Assefa, botanist from the Ethiopian Biodiversity Institute, for the identification of the plants.
The authors are grateful to ITALCOL Spa, Castelfiorentino (FI), to QuMAP Laboratory of PIN (Prato) and to Fabio Villanelli for technical support.
The authors take this opportunity to express their sincere gratitude to the management of Plant Lipids (P) Ltd., Cochin, India to be a constant source of support and encouragement during this review and are honored and revered to work under them. We would also like to show our deep appreciation and indebtedness to laboratory members for their patience and co-operation throughout this review, as without their active help the completion of this undertaking would not have been accomplished.
We are grateful to the Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja (UTPL) for supporting this investigation and open access publication.
The authors would like to thank State Scholarships Foundation (IKY) for funding and Afroditi Chatzifragkou for editing English language.
The authors would like to acknowledge the research support funding by Newcastle University in Singapore for the preparation and publication of this review. The support from Chi-Hwa Wang, National University of Singapore, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering on the use of their supercritical fluid facilities is deeply appreciated.
Authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support of Razi University. We would like to express our appreciation to Dr. Shahin Hassanpour for his assistance.
The authors thank Universidade Paranaense, Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior – Brazil (CAPES) -finance code 001-, Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) for the financial support and the fellowship and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of Serbia (Grant No. OI 173032).
The authors thank the Australian Awards PhD Scholarship from the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade awarded to the first-named author. We are grateful to CopRice Feeds Cobden, Victoria, Australia for the production of experimental pelleted feeds to specification. Thanks to Stephen Ives, Rowan Smith, Andrew Bailey, John Cavalieri, Lisa Manley, Claire Blackwood, John Otto and Aaron Flakemore for their editorial, technical, laboratory and logistical assistance during and after the feeding trial.
All the authors developed the research concept and designed the methodology. Data obtained in this study were analyzed and interpreted by OOO and COO. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors are sincerely grateful to all technologists in the Departments of Chemistry and Microbiology, The Federal University of Technology, Akure for their support during the laboratory work.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All necessary data supporting our findings can be found within the article.
All the authors agreed to publish in the journal.
The manuscript is an original research and has not been published in other journal.
Not applicable.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The research was funded from the resources of Wroclaw Medical University Grant ST-904. The authors would like to thank Dr. Jakub Siednienko (Ludwik Hirszfeld Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of Sciences, Wroclaw, Poland) for providing immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM).
The authors acknowledged the Research Deputy of Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Iran for financial support of this study (Grant number: 960427097).
The authors are highly obliged to the Library Department, University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (UVAS), Government College University Faisalabad (GCUF), and IT Department, Higher Education Commission (HEC, Islamabad) for access to journals, books and valuable database.
The dataset supporting the conclusions of this article is included within the article.
Not Applicable.
Not applicable.
This work was supported by grants from Special Fund for Agro-scientific Research in the Public Interest (No. 201503134, 201303059), China Agriculture Research System (No. CARS-39-18), the major science and technology projects of Gansu Province (No. 17ZD2NC020), as well as projects of Lanzhou Science & Technology Bureau (No. 2012–2-159). None of the funders had any role in design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis, and interpretation of the data; and preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript.
Metagenome sequences generated were entered into the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) under accession numbers SRA: SRP149856.
The authors would like to thank the New Use Agriculture and Natural Plant Products Program and the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station Hatch Project NJ12158 which provided funding for this work. We also thank Ed Dager, Mark Peacos and Harna Patel for their assistance in the field and greenhouse production of the catnip samples. The authors would also like to thank Chris Bainter at FLIR® Systems for his assistance in the project. We also thank Eric and Clancy Goodkind, as this project would not have been possible without their hospitality. Finally, we would like to thank Walter and Barbara Reichert for their continual support.
This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan (NO. 2016JJ3064 and NO. 2018JJ3199), University Industrialization Cultivation Project of Hunan Province (NO. 13CY029) and Hunan Provincial Department of Education key projects (NO. 15A072).
X. L., Z. Q. and F. H. designed the experiments and wrote the manuscript. K. L., Y. L. and T. P. collected plant materials, and X. L., F. H., X. L., Z. L. and G. D. performed the experiments and data analysis. Z. Q. improved the English of the paper.
The authors acknowledge Debre Berhan University for funding, Ankober Village community, and laboratory technicians of college of health sciences, Addis Ababa University. The authors would like also to thank the Ethiopian Ministry of Science and Technology for partly funding field work and laboratory. This study was financed by Ankober Herbal Medicine Preparation and Plant Biodiversity Conservation Project from Debre Berhan University, Ethiopia.
JR acknowledges co-financiation by the UPV program PAID-10-17.
This work is dedicated to the memory of Dr. Richard T. Jones (1972–2018). Richard was a colleague and close friend to all authors and without his collaborative nature and passion for interdisciplinary research this project would not have been possible. This publication celebrates his career. This work was supported by Shell Research Ltd. and the University of Exeter. Authors wish to acknowledge Angela Elliott (University of Exeter) for aiding with sediment preparation; Jerry Purcell (Shell Global Solutions) for support with 2D-GCMS analysis; Audrey Farbos (Exeter Sequencing Service) for her assistance with preparing DNA sequencing libraries and the Quesnel River Research Centre for their support. We would like to thank Tim Devarenne and Dan Browne (Texas A&M University) for their advice and providing early access to the 
  
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos 31700499, 31670578 and 31670577), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Non-profit Research Institution of CAF(CAFYBB2018QB008).
The authors thank the funding from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia under grant MI-2018-009 awarded to ZZ.
The authors wish to thank the Fundação de Amparo a Pesquisa do Espirito Santo (FAPES), Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), and Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) for financial support.

  
The authors are gratefully acknowledging the assistance of Dr. Khaladi Omar and Dr. Bousbiaa Aissam.
The authors acknowledge logistical support from Maria Cleide de Mendonça at the Department of Entomology of the Museu Nacional/UFRJ, Rio de Janeiro, which was regretfully destroyed by a huge fire on September 2nd, 2018. The Department of Entomology, where most of the studied specimens were deposited, had more than 5 million specimens and was completely destroyed. We express our solidarity.
Thanks to Alina Ghilan for technical assistance with DLS measurements.
The authors extend their appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University for funding this work through research group No (RG-1440-113). Also, authors like to sincere the Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Mansoura University, and National Research Centre, Egypt (Project No: 11080302).
We thank Janos Lanyi at UC Irvine for providing the bR gene from MPK409 strain. The authors also gratefully thank the help from the National Facility for Protein Science Shanghai on tryptic-digested mass spectrometry analysis.
The authors would like to thank Jenny Elisabeth and PT Wilmar Nabati Indonesia for providing fresh palm nuts and thank the panelists (Fang Fang, Wang Xu, Mei Fangyi and Yang Yanning from Wilmar (R&D) center) for their participation in sensory evaluation.
We would like to thank Croatian Government and the European Union through the European Regional Development Fund—the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme (KK.01.1.1.01) for funding The Scientific Centre of Excellence for Marine Bioprospecting-BioProCro and this research.
The authors gratefully acknowledge Shimadzu Corporation and Merck Life Science for their continuous support. The authors thank the “Programma Operativo Fondo Sociale Europeo (FSE) Regione Siciliana 2014–2020–Asse 3 Ob. 10.5″ for the PhD fellowship to Giuseppe Micalizzi. We gratefully acknowledge the official permit (# 749/29.05.2018 of МОСВ) for the collection of 
  
The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the Brazilian Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel (CAPES), the Foundation for Research Support of the State of Amazonas (FAPEAM), the Federal University of Amazonas, Manaus, AM, Brazil. The State of Sergipe’s Funding Agency for Research, Science and Innovation (FAPITEC/SE, in Portuguese).
J. Vuorenmaa, E. Valkonen and H. Ketunnen work at Hankija Ltd.
Study design: MA, JV, EV, HK, RD, FVI, EG; Animal experiment: EG; In vitro experiments: MA, CC, EG; Bioinformatics analysis: EG; Preparation of the manuscript: MA, RD, FH, FVI, EG. All authors offered a critical review of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors would like to thank the Ph.D. students and Postdocs from the department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Avian Diseases from Ghent University who kindly collaborated with the collection of samples from the in vivo trial.
The study was undertaken following the guidelines of the ethics committee of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University. As this study concerns a feed trial, no specific ethics approval is needed.
The presented work was funded by a grant from Hankija Ltd.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial supports PN-CONACYT-México/2014-248560, CB-CONACYT-México/2016-284813, and PAICYT-UANL/IT658-18. Perla Giovanna Silva Flores is thankful to the CONACYT-México Program of Scholarships for Postgraduate Study 254012.
The authors acknowledge the contribution of colleagues and the support from the Natural Product Laboratory FRST/FSTS UNIMAS, 07(ZRC05/1238/2015(2).
JKRS and ARR participated in study designed; JSFO and LP .conducted the experiments; ALFAL assisted the experiments of plant anatomy; EAA performed the GC–MS analyzes, AMH provided and identified the AMFs species; JSFO, ARR and JKRS wrote the manuscript; JGSM, WNS and JKRS edited and revised the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
The authors are grateful to the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES - Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel) for providing a Master scholarship to J.S.F. De Oliveira (Grant Number 1550848).
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All necessary data supporting our finding can be found within the article.
All the authors agreed to publish in the journal.
The manuscript is an original research and has not been published in others journals.
Not applicable.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
This work was supported by grants from the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2016YFD0501205, 2016YFD0500503), Natural Science Foundation of China program (31872435 and 31472163), and the Key Project of Guangdong Provincial Nature Science Foundation (2018B030311015, 2016A030313413).
This work is financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No.: 31430067, 31601475, 31571876, and 31671807), the Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province, China (No.: C2018024), the National Science Foundation for Post‐doctoral Scientists of China (No.: 2018M641798), the 13th Five‐Year Plan (No.: 2016YFD0401402), and the Application and Technology Research of Heilongjiang Province, China (No.: GA17B002).
SS expresses special thanks to Department Research and Development Programs (DRDP), Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune, Maharashtra and Department of Science and Technology- Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (DST-PURSE), Government of India, New Delhi grants for financial support.
The authors would like to express their gratitude for CONICYT-PCHA grant no. 2012-21120365 (awarded to JE) and CONICYT-postdoctoral FONDECYT grant no. 3180532 (awarded to JE). JE is grateful to Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Postgrado, Universidad de La Frontera, UFRO; AU is grateful to Proyecto Basal USA 1799, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, USACH; and LS is grateful to Fondo de Desarrollo a la Publicación (FDP), Universidad Mayor 2017–2018; Specifically, the authors would like to thank Dr. Glenn Kaatz of the Division of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Wayne State University for donating the 
  
Would like to acknowledge IIUM, MARDI, and UITM bio-composite department for support given for administrative and technical support.
This work is supported by the National Nature Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21307026 and 51603062), and the Landmark Innovation Project of Henan Institute of Science and Technology (No. 2015BZ02), and the “Funds for Distinguished Scientists” of HIST, the Science and Technology Project of Henan Province (No. 142102210047) and the Innovation Team in Henan Province (No. C20150020).
This project was financially supported by Hubei Provincial Outstanding Young and Middle-Aged Science and Technology Innovation Team Project (Grant no. T201813), the Young Scientist Innovation Team Project of Hubei Colleges (no. T201510), and the Hubei Province Health and Family Planning Scientific Research Project (no. WJ2017Z023).
The research on fish metabolism in the laboratory of SU has been supported by Discovery Grants from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. Research lab infrastructure was purchased using a Leaders Opportunities Fund from the Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI), and an Establishment Grant from the Saskatchewan Health Research Foundation (SHRF).
To the Brazilian agencies Conselho Nacional e Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnológico (CNPq), and Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG). This study was financed in part by the Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brasil (CAPES) - Finance Code 001. Dr. Phillip John Villani (The University of Melbourne, Australia) revised and corrected the English language used in this manuscript.
Animals were tended in the Center for Production and Animal Experimentation (CPEA-University of Jaén). We thank Peter Cassidy for proofreading the manuscript. We acknowledge as well to Aceites Soler Romero and Javier Alcalá Torres for providing us with their extra virgin olive oil.
The authors would like to thank technical staff and nutritionists at the Research and Innovation unit at Rivalea (Australia) Pty. Ltd. (Corowa NSW, Australia) for their on-farm technical assistance and nutritional expertise. Thanks to the laboratory staff and students at the Faculty of Veterinary and Agricultural Sciences at the University of Melbourne (Parkville, Australia), the School of Veterinary and Life Sciences at Murdoch University (Murdoch, Australia), and the New South Wales DPI (Wagga Wagga, Australia) for their invaluable help with the laboratory analysis. 
Companies BYSEA S.r.l. and GBL S.r.l. (Italy) are gratefully acknowledged for their technical support in part of the tests; the authors thank A. Raschi (CNR-IBIMET) for the continuous support and the provision of internal resources; R. Meneguzzo is acknowledged for the identification of the silver fir trees and his support in the collection of test materials.
The authors express their kind appreciation to Alexander N. Hristov (Pennsylvania State University, USA) and Emilio M. Ungerfeld (Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias INIA Carillanca, Chile) for comments on this manuscript.
This work was carried out as part of the activities of the Aromatic Plant Research Center (APRC, 
  
The authors are thankful to Mehrangiz Chehrazi (Department of Horticultural Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran) for her excellent assist in taxonomical identification of plant material.
The authors are grateful to the farmer Pavel Friedberger for allowing the experiment on his farm using his animals and for providing meat samples.
The authors acknowledge the financial support for this study from the Special National Key Research and Development Plan (2016YFD0400206), Postgraduate Research &Practice Innovation Program of Jiangsu Province (KYCX17-1225) and a project funded by the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions (PAPD).
The first author thanks the National Council of Science and Technology of Mexico (CONACyT), for the financial support provided toward his PhD studies.
This research was financially supported by the 111 project (B 16044) and the key science research program of Henan Department of Education (16A230014).
This work was supported by Korea Institute of Planning and Evaluation for Technology in Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (IPET) through Technology Commercialization Support Program, funded by Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) (Project No.:817025-03).
B.M.-R. and S.T.-G. acknowledge MICIU for her FPI grant (BES-2016-077972) and his Juan de la Cierva - Incorporación contract (IJCI-2016-29675), respectively. K.J.F-L. also acknowledges GVA for her Santiago Grisolia grant (GRISOLIAP/2017/101). A.B. would also like to thank GVA (POSTD/2014/016) and MICIU for her Juan de la Cierva - Incorporación contract (IJCI-2014-21534). The authors also thank the Joint Unit in Polymers Technology between IATA–CSIC and PIMA-Universitat Jaume I.
The author would like to thank Saxifraga Foundation (
  
We thank Muhammad Farrukh Nisar (Cholistan University of Veterinary & Animal Sciences) for his linguistic assistance during the preparation of this manuscript.
P.S. and W.N.S. participated in this work as part of the activities of the Aromatic Plant Research Center (APRC, 
  
The authors thank Dr. Yu Cao (Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology) for conducting HRMS experiments and Mr. Qing Huang (School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Gannan Normal University) for assisting with NMR experiments.
The authors are grateful to Angela Wann, Miles Gibson and Nikil Ravat for their excellent technical assistance.
The authors acknowledge the Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (2011/03412-2) for the financial support given to this research and APTA Regional de Ribeirão Preto for providing the facilities needed to carry out this research.
The authors would also like to thank Dr. Zala Kolenc from the Slovenian Institute of Hop Research and Brewing for the photos presented in 
  
We thank Amy Rowley (USDA-ARS, CMAVE, in Gainesville, FL, USA) for providing the beet armyworm, its artificial diet, and 
  
Ahmed Al-Jumaili acknowledges the post graduate scholarship offered by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Iraq, and is grateful to JCUPRS for the financial support.
The authors acknowledge the helpful of the Analysis and Testing Central Facility of Anhui University of Technology. We are grateful for the work that the high temperature laser scanning confocal microscope experiment was completed by the graduate students Yuguo Zhong and Yang Jin.
C.E. and Á.S acknowledge the Juan de la Cierva contracts (IJCI-2015-26432 and FJCI-2015-24405, respectively) from the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation, and Universities. M.P.A. thanks Universidad Complutense de Madrid for her postdoctoral contract (Ayuda posdoctoral de formación en docencia e investigación en los Departamentos de la UCM).
The authors acknowledge the financial support of National Nature Science Foundation of China, project NSFC31671918 and Zhejiang Municipal Science and Technology Project 2017C04005.
The authors would like to thank Eng. Vito Speranza (University of Salerno) for assistance with AFM measurements.
This study was financed by the researcher invitation program at Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1 and by the VINNOVA project: 2013-04372, “Protein feed production from organic waste products”.
The authors wish to thank Dr Mohammad Mahmoodi Sourestani for helping in interpretation of GC-MS results. This article is part of Ismaeil Alizadeh MSPH thesis and it was financially supported by and conducted in Infectious and Tropical Diseases Research Center, Health Research Institute, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences (AJUMS). (Project No. OG-95102).
The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.
We would like to thank Sonya Siragusa for help in proteomic analyses.
The authors thank; the Faculty of Sciences of Gafsa- Tunisia and Electric Transport Base of Gafsa-Tunisia, BTEGF-STEG.
The authors also thank Nahla Omer Ahmed Eltai from Biomedical Research Center, Qatar University for helping with the antibacterial studies. 
We would like to thank the staff of the Avian Experimental Unit (INRA, UE 1295 Pôle d'Expérimentation Avicole de Tours, 37380 Nouzilly, France) for producing the chickens and for their assistance in experiments, S. Crochet, E. Cailleau-Audouin, and E. Baéza from the Avian Biology and Poultry Science Unit (UMR BOA, INRA, Université de Tours, 37380 Nouzilly, France) and P. Constantin (UMR PRC, INRA, CNRS, IFCE, Université de Tours, 37380 Nouzilly, France) for their help in experiments, and G. Mauboussin, O. Honcharova, and A. Yildirim, the students involved in the study. We also thank M. Derval and C. Ingraham for their expertise in aromatherapy and self-medication practices with livestock. The authors are grateful to L. Bignon and I. Bouvarel (Institut Technique de l'Aviculture, F-37380 Nouzilly, France) for helpful discussions and S. Beauclercq (UMR BOA, INRA, Université de Tours, 37380 Nouzilly, France) for revision.
The authors acknowledge financial support of the Special Fund for Distinguished Experts in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Guangxi Talent Highland of Preservation and Deep Processing Research in Fruit and Vegetables, Special Fund for Science and Technology Base and Talent of Guangxi (GKAD17195088), which has enabled us to carry out this study.
Two anonymous reviewers kindly improved an earlier version of our work. R. Pavela would like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic for its financial support concerning botanical pesticide and basic substances research (Project No. RO0418). We are grateful to A. Minardi & Figli S.r.l. for providing the plant material.
The authors would like to thank Piercarlo Ferraris and Peppino Piquereddu for the free plant material supply.
Authors thank Mrs. Vassilka Petkova and Mrs. Yulia Yonkova at the Research Institute for Roses and Medicinal Plants in Kazanluk, Bulgaria, for their help with the essential oil extraction.
Thanks are due to the University of Aveiro and FCT/MCT for the financial support for the QOPNA research Unit (FCT UID/QUI/00062/2019) through national founds and, where applicable, co-financed by the FEDER, within the PT2020 Partnership Agreement.
We are grateful for the support from CNRS Lebanon and USEK. 
We would like to thank all the authors for their contributions, and in particular, the reviewers who contributed to this Special Issue by evaluating and enhancing the quality of the submitted manuscripts.
R.R. and A.P. thanks Alchemical Dynamics s.r.l. for the technical support.
We thank Professor George Tohme for his valuable help in the identification of this plant, the Association for the Protection of Jabal Moussa (the managing body of Jabal Moussa UNESCO Biosphere Reserve) for their help collecting the plant.
This work is a part of the project titled “Studies on the antimicrobial and antioxidant effects of extracts, essential oils and dried spices in poultry meat”, which was financially supported by the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education in 2011–2015 (Grant No. N N312 257040).
The authors would like to thank Urmia University, Urmia, Iran, for financial support (Thesis No. d2-36).
All the authors of the manuscript thank and acknowledge their respective universities and institutes.
Conception and design of the study was proposed by OS and SF. Acquisition of data was carried out by NK and SF. Interpretation of data, statistical analysis and drafting of the article was carried out by NK and SF. Revising the article critically was carried out by OS. Final approval of the version to be submitted was carried out by NK, SF and OS. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Not applicable.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
The used strains are available upon request. All obtained data have been included into the manuscript.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
The authors thank Y. John Wang (Genentech, Inc.), Vincent Corvari (Eli Lilly and Company), Archana Jaiswal (Nanoscience Instruments), Ameya Bowankar (Nektar Therapeutics), and Zhi Li (Abbvie) for insightful discussions during the preparation of this manuscript and Diana Woehle (Amgen Process Development) and Wim Jiskoot (Leiden University) for critically reading the manuscript.
We are thankful to the 
  
The results described in this paper were part of student thesis which financially supported by grant (No. 3/23030) from the Ferdowsi University of Mashhad.
The authors would like to thank Dr. Rufang Deng and Ms. Xinlan Xu for their help in using a confocal laser-scanning microscope.
This study was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31870666 and 31470685), Science and Technology Program of Guangzhou (201804010414), Guangdong Special Support Program (2017TQ04N303) and the Guangdong Science and Technology project (2015B020231008). The funders had no role in the design of the study and collection, analysis, and interpretation of data and in writing the manuscript.

   
The authors thank the Director of Palermo Botanic garden, Prof. Rosario Schicchi, for allowing access to the living collections. The authors are grateful to Prof. Dr. Stefan Dötterl and Dr. Roman Fuchs, Department of Biosciences, Plant Ecology, University of Salzburg, Austria for the GC/MS analysis of our essential oil sample.
The authors wish to thank the Ahvaz Branch, Islamic Azad University for financial support. The author would like to thank Scientific Reports Editor Dr. Eric Craswell and reviewers for their comments in development and improvement of this paper.
The authors like to thank all members of the Floral Biotechnology Laboratory, Universiti Putra Malaysia. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. Additionally, the authors would also like to thank Malaysia Genome Institute (MGI) for providing the proteomic facilities throughout this study.
Research Council of Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences is thankfully acknowledged for the financial support to carrying out the work (Grant No. 2217). The authors are also thankful to Research Council of Shahrekord University to supports provided. 
TB gratefully acknowledges funding of the Werner Siemens foundation for establishing the research field of Synthetic Biotechnology at the Technical University of Munich. DA and NM gratefully acknowledge funding by the Bavarian State Ministry for Environmental and Consumer affairs for funding of the project Resource efficient PHB production processes within the project consortium BayBioTech (TP7, TLK01U-69045, 
  
This work was supported by a grant from Student Research Committee, Kerman University of Medical Science, Kerman, Iran (grant number: 96000521.(
The authors are grateful to the Director, CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, (HP), India for providing necessary facilities during the course of study. We also thank Mr. Kuldeep Singh, Mr. Ramdeen Prasad and Mr. Shiv Kumar for their technical support. This is IHBT publication number 4323.
We thank Julie Barry (USDA-ARS Plant Genetics Research Unit, Columbia, MO) and James Smith (USDA-ARS BCIRL, Columbia, MO) for technical assistance. The authors would like to thank Dr. Deborah Finke (University of Missouri, Columbia, MO) for comments that improved the text. Research for this study, in part, was funded by Monsanto Corn Rootworm Knowledge Grants Program. Mention of trade names or commercial products is solely for the purpose of providing specific information and does not imply recommendation or endorsement by the USDA. USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer. This article reports the results of research only. Mention of a proprietary product does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation for its use by the USDA or the University of Missouri.
The authors would like to acknowledge the financial support from Junta de Castilla y León (LE077G18) and Ministerio de Ecnonomía y Competitividad (AGL2017-82779-C2).
To Henrique dos Santos Almeida for statistical analysis.
Funding was provided by UCLA, NSF MRI (CHE-1048804), and NIH (training grant to D. A. E., 5T32GM067555-12). We thank the Spokoyny, Maynard, and Deming groups for the use of equipment.
We thank Dr. Christophe Leterrier at the Neuropathophysiology Insitute (INP, CNRS-Aix Marseille University UMR 7051) for critical reading and advice. We thank the MRC-LMCB light microscopy facility for the equipment maintenance and users training. This manuscript was released as a pre-print on biorxiv (
  
Ahmed Al-Jumaili acknowledges the post graduate scholarship offered by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Iraq, and is grateful to JCUPRS for its financial support.
This work was supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under grant agreement: EP/M029425/1 “Creating a Stink – Investigating Olfactory Transport Streams”. The authors gratefully acknowledge Professor Graham Cooks from Purdue University for his assistance and support.
This work was supported by several sources, including the funds of Poznań University of Life Sciences; project TEAM TECH no. POIR.04.04.00-00-204E/16-00, entitled: Insects as novel protein sources for fish and poultry, financed by Foundation of Polish Science (POIR 4.4); funds of the National Centre for Research and Development, no POIR.01.01.01-00-0828/15, entitled: InnSecta: innovative technology of feedstuffs production based on insect biomass; no. EraNet-LAC/EntoWaste/06/2017, entitled: Valorisation of agrifood residuals with insect technologies; and funds of the Greater Poland Regional Operative Programme, no. RPWP.01.02.00-IZ-00-30-00/16, entitled: Development of BIOINSEC technology in HiProMine company.
We extend our appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University for funding this study through a research group project (RGP-267). We thank the Deanship of Scientific Research and RSSU at King Saud University for their technical support. We also thank our institutes and universities.
We appreciate Bizen Chemical Co., Ltd. for providing DHA and Shintoa Corporation for providing yellow mealworm larvae. We would like to thank Y. Kajiwara, M. Kuwahara, and K. Komatsu for their technical assistance.
The authors are grateful to Sandro Tenti, Giulia Tasoniero and Lotte Decraene for their technical support. Furthermore, the help of Barbara Contiero is also acknowledged for the statistical analysis. 
Authors wish to thank Michael Ryan, School of Biology and Environmental Science, University College, Dublin for his kind support in editing the manuscript. The authors want to thank Matteo Mari and Mafalda Govoni for supporting in qualitative compositional analyses on silkworm pupae and Massimiliano Magli for assistance in statistical analysis.
We thank the staff of the Research Institute of Environment, Agriculture and Fisheries, Osaka Prefecture for their assistance in taking care of the insects.
The authors would like to thank the financial support provided by the FUNCAP institution.
This work was financially supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2016YFD0600805).
This study was supported by the research project (the application and promotion of applying organic fertiliser to improve tobacco quality and relieve soil hardening) from China Tobacco Chongqing Industrial Co. Ltd. and the Science and Technology project (the demonstration and application technology of soil conservation) from Luoyang Tobacco Company.
The research was supported by the Alltech-KSU Alliance fund (Project No. 15-4-18). Salaries and research support were provided by state and federal funds appropriated to Kentucky State University.
We thank laboratory members for helpful discussion. The results described in the review were obtained, at least in part, from research supported by grants from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan (MEXT) and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS; KAKENHI [JP15K19142 to TN; JP15H05790, JP18H02150, JP18H02674, JP17K09604, JP26670241, and JP26293111 to JK]); the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED; [JP17ek0410032s0102, JP17ek0210078h0002, JP17ak0101068h0001, JP17gm1010006s0101, JP18ck0106243h0003, and 19ek0410062h0001 to JK]); the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Japan (to JK); the Science and Technology Research Promotion Program for Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries, and Food Industry (to JK); grants-in-aid for Scientific Research on Innovative Areas from MEXT (JP23116506, JP16H01373, and JP25116706 to JK); Cross-ministerial Strategic Innovation Promotion Program (SIP); the Ono Medical Research Foundation; and the Canon Foundation (to JK).
We thank Brian Mooney, associate director of the Charles W. Gehrke Proteomics Center at the University of Missouri, for providing assistance with the LC-MS/MS. We also wish to express our gratitude to DSM Nutritional Products (USA) for donating DHASCO, the source of dietary DHA used in this study.
The authors are grateful to Brazilian organizations Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES), Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) and Fundação e Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul (FAPERGS). 
The Amapá Foundation for Research Support (FAPEAP). To the Research Program for SUS—PPSUS—Ministry of Health. The Coordination of Improvement of Higher Education Personnel (CAPES)/Ministry of Education (MEC). The National Council for Scientific and Technological Development-CNPQ. To the Laboratory of Microbiology (LEMA) under the responsibility of Prof. Aldo Proietti Aparecido Júnior. The Federal University of Amapá—UNIFAP. Pro-rector of research and post-graduation—PROPESPG.
This research was supported by a grant from the Universidad Estatal Amazónica, Ecuador and a grant from the University of Ferrara, Italy. The present article was produced within the framework of the MAE – DNB – CM – 2015 – 0027 agreement in force between the Ministry of the Environment of Ecuador and the Universidad Estatal Amazónica. Finally, we are grateful to the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments.
The authors wish to thank to Javier Fraguas for their excellent technical assistance.
The authors want to express their thanks to the C.I.G.S. staff (Centro Interdipartimentale Grandi Strumenti, Modena, Italy) for the precious assistance during the experimental work and to Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di Modena for the purchase of Bruker FT-NMR Avance III HD 600 MHz spectrometer. Moreover, the authors want to express special thanks to Gianpaolo Grassi (CREA-CIN, Rovigo, Italy) for kindly providing samples of hemp inflorescences.
The authors acknowledge with thanks especially Barış Otlu for his valuable contribution and advice, the Microbiology Department of Inonu University and the Pharmacy Department of Near East University for their help and kindness.
Authors would like to thank Cinzia Cappannari for her technical support and APA-CT for kindly supplying the tested compounds.
The authors are grateful to Prof. Roberto Gagliano Candela and to Prof. Salvatore Scacco, School of Medicine, University of Bari, for their contribution in chemical characterization of the essential oils used in this study.
The authors would like to thank the teams at the microbiological analysis laboratory at King Abdulaziz Specialist Hospital, Taif, Saudi Arabia for help in sampling and bacterial isolation and Laboratoires OMEGA Pharma (Groupe Perrigo) – Phytosun Arôms (France) for help in the GC–MS analysis.
We would like to express our gratitude to Cooperative Research Program for Agriculture Science & Technology Development, Project No. PJ013398062019 of Rural Development Administration, Republic of Korea for partial financial support in maintaining our instrumental analysis.
The authors would like to thank Open Access Centre for the Advanced Pharmaceutical and Health Technologies (Lithuanian university of Health Sciences) and for the opportunity to use modern infrastructure and perform this research.
We wish to thank Marie-Christine Fayt and Marie-France Hérent for skillful technical assistance in GC, Maude Bourlet for helping on cells and parasites cultivation, and all the members of the Pharmacognosy group from LDRI, UCLouvain, Belgium, for helpful scientific advice and support.
The authors are grateful to the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT, Portugal) and FEDER under the Programme PT2020 for financial support to CIMO [UID/AGR/00690/2019], L. Barros contract, and A. Fernandes contracts. The authors would also like to thank Abílio Pereira de Carvalho for his extensive contribution to the specimens’ harvest.
Our thanks go to all the chemical supply and manufacturing companies who kindly gave us samples to test in this project. Also we would like to thank the individuals and families who participated in the combing study. This manuscript has been revised and corrected thanks to the comments from three reviewers.
This work has been supported by the Osijek-Baranja County under the project “Possibilities of processing medicinal herbs using modern technological processes”.
The authors thank the Central Service for Experimental Research of the University of Valencia (SCSIE) for providing the Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry equipment and to Professor Pilar Soriano from the Jardín Botánico de Valencia for collecting and providing the seeds.
This work is supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51773153).
The authors would like to thank the Pasteur Institute of Casablanca, Morocco, for providing multidrug-resistant bacteria.
The authors would like to thank Tarbiat Modares University for providing the laboratory facilities and financial support for this project and Mrs. P. Sanders for her helpful recommendations on the manuscript.
The authors wish to thank Suzanne Brashear and Dr. Si‐Yin Chung for assistance.
The authors acknowledge the financial support provided by the Tarbiat Modares University Research Council.
Open access funding provided by Lappeenranta University of Technology (LUT). The staff of Kenkäveronniemi WWTP is thanked for their practical help during the study.
The authors acknowledge funding from the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO Proj. No. 731.015.207) in support of this work. Marco van den Berg, Brenda Ammerlaan and Doris Jacobs are also thanked for their comments on the manuscript.
HCW planned and designed the research. YHK formulated the process and conducted the simulation. The manuscript was written from the contribution of the authors. Both authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Not applicable.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this published article and its additional file.
Not applicable.
This work was conducted with financial support from the Basic Research Program (2017R1E1A01074445) through the National Research Foundation of Korea and from the Korea Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning (20194010201840).
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
We thank the Chinese Government for the scholarship (No. 2015120T22) granted to the first author (MA). This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (31661143045) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (CRP No. 17153 and No. 18269). Authors are grateful to Professor Boaz Yuval (Department of Entomology, The Robert H. Smith Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environment, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel) and two anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments on this manuscript.
L.C. and L.M. acknowledge the Romanian grants PNIII-P1-1.1-TE-2016-1951 and PN-III-P4-ID-PCE-2016-0817.
Contributions from L.M.F. and W.N.S in this work were performed as part of the activities of the Research Network Natural Products against Neglected Diseases (ResNetNPND), (
  
The authors cordially appreciate Mehrangiz Chehrazi (Department of Horticultural Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran) for taxonomical identification of plant samples.
We thank Simon Partridge from Liwen Bianji, Edanz Editing China (
  
W.N.S. is grateful to Zija International and dōTERRA International for generously donating essential oils. L.M. and W.N.S. carried out this work as part of the activities of the Research Network Natural Products against Neglected Diseases (ResNetNPND), (
  
We thank Kun Cui for his help in revising article, and Tao Ding and Ning Xu for their help in fish rearing.
We are grateful to Muhammad Hafiy Bin Mohd Halim and Mohamed Yusuf Bin Mahamed Nazir for their assistance to draw pictures and data analysis.
The authors would like to thank Carlos Mazorra from Tinamenor S.L. (Pesués, Spain) for providing the fish and the personnel of the animal facility at the Faculty of Biology for their maintenance.
This work has been financed by the Integrating Activity, Research Infrastructure project 
  
This research was financially supported by a National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) Grant (No. NRF-2016R1A2A1A05005414) funded by the Korean Government (MSIT).
We are grateful to Dr. Asako Nomura of the local veterinary clinic for providing the feline ovaries and testes. This study was supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (B) No. 24780311 and a Grant-in-Aid for Science Research (C) No. 15K07747 from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. We also thank Nippon Medical & Chemical Instruments Co., Ltd. for providing the information on the used media.
We thank Tanac (Montenegro, RS, Brazil) for the donation of the 
  
This research was part of a PhD thesis of Dr. Mahdieh Eftekhari. The study has been supported by Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran (Grant number 9211333001). 
We wish to thank University Malaya for awarding the Postgraduate Research Grant (PPP) PG085-2012B to support this study and the Institute of Medical Research Malaysia (IMR) for providing mosquitoes and cages. We also would like to thank all the volunteers for their involvements in the repellency study. We also appreciate the Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science Universiti Malaya for allowing the use of Zetasizer, FTIR, and TGA analysis equipment. 
We would like to thank Nadja Braun and the Helmholtz nano facility [
  
CJRMR and FAM designed the study. CJRMR, CQR, DMA, CAAL, DPBS, JACL, DFC and FAM carried out experiments and analyzed the data. CJRMR wrote the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
This research was supported by CAPES.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
All data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this published article in the main manuscript and additional file.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
No funding source was received. The article is self funded by the authors. All authors shared in the design of the study, collection, analysis, and interpretation of data and in writing the manuscript.
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
We thank our colleagues from Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences and Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences who provided insight and expertise that greatly assisted the research, although they may not agree with all of the conclusions of this paper.
We are grateful to all the laboratory members for their technical advice and helpful discussion.
We are grateful to T. Wagener for providing his field dataset. W.M.L. would like to acknowledge the GEOTRACES program for the North Atlantic aerosol samples. 
  
This work was carried out with the support of “Cooperative Research Program for Agriculture Science and Technology Development (Project No. PJ01329201)” Rural Development Administration, Republic of Korea.
The study was supported by the funds granted by the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education under the Project No. N N311 110138 entitled ‘The effect of tannins and oils addition to sheep diets on microorganism population, rumen fermentation, enzymatic activity of pancreatic-biliary juice and lamb quality’.
This study was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFD0400302), the USA Poultry and Egg Export Council, Stone Mountain, GA, and the Iowa Agriculture and Home Economics Experiment Station, Ames, Iowa. Project No. IOW03721 is sponsored by Hatch Act and State of Iowa funds.
Thanks to Katharina Schulte (James Cook University, Townsville, Queensland, Australia) who provided the developing coconut fruits which were used in this study. We would like to thank Qing Liu and Madeline Mitchell for their time and critical review of the manuscript before submission.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
The authors thank Lennart Hoengenaert from VIB and Diana Vargas from LCT for their assistance in thioacidolysis experiments. The research leading to these results has received funding from the 
  
All authors acknowledge the Laboratory of Human Pathology, Biomedicine and Environment, Sidi Mohammed Ben Abdellah University, Fez, Morocco.
We would like to thank Dr. Eugenia Carvalho (Centre for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, Portugal) for kindly providing the human keratinocytes cell line (HaCaT).
The authors thank the Fundação de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento do Ensino, Ciência e Tecnologia do Estado de Mato Grosso do Sul, (grant number 23/200.549/2013) and the Universidade Federal da Grande Dourados for the financial support.
The authors would like to express their sincere gratitude to the Department of Chemical Engineering at 
  
The authors thank the Department of Food of Shihezi University for providing instrumental facilities.
F.P. thanks the EN-FIST Centre of Excellence, Ljubljana, Slovenia, for using the SuperNova diffractometer.
The authors, thank MedaPharma/Rottapharm/Madaus s.p.a. for the supply of materials.
L.M., P.C. and W.N.S. carried out this work as part of the activities of the Research Network Natural Products against Neglected Diseases (ResNetNPND, 
  
The authors would like to thank Open Access Centre for the Advanced Pharmaceutical and Health Technologies (Lithuanian University of Health Sciences).
This research was supported by National Key Research and Development Program of China for financial supports (2016YFD0200500). We are grateful to Professor Hanwen Ni of China Agricultural University providing assistance in revising the first draft. We thank Beijing Majorbio Sanger Bio-pharm Technology Co., Ltd for identifying the pathogen using PCR. We also thank American Journal Experts (AJE) for English language editing.
This research was supported by Global PH.D Fellowship Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education (2017H1A2A1045963).
The authors would like to thank Sardina d.o.o. (Postira, Croatia) for raw material support, technical and facilities support of this research. We thank Heidi-Christine Santoro for the language editing.
The authors thank Lucrezia Cosmai for technical support.
Authors would like to thank Ömer Turmuş for his technical support. 
The author would like to acknowledge the contributions by the Department of Microbiology, Maratha Mandal Belgaum, Karnataka and Bapuji College of Pharmacy, Davanagere, Karnataka, for their help in conducting my study.
Staff and resources for preparation of experimental plots, pasture measurement and animal experimentation on-farm were provided by the Victorian Government (Department of Jobs, Precincts and Regions, DJPR). The authors thank staff from Rutherglen (Greg Seymour, Nick Linden, Meredith Mitchell) and Attwood (Matthew Kerr, Wayne Brown) for their contribution in conducting the feeding trial and collecting pasture samples in the experimental plots and muscle samples in the abattoir. The staff of the co-operating abattoir at Kyneton, Victoria are thanked for their assistance during the slaughter of lambs and muscle sample collection.
We are grateful to all research groups and the authors, cited in our paper, whose work encouraged this discussion. We are grateful to Marcia E. Herman-Giddens for her useful comments and help in manuscript language correction.
The study was as part of M.S. study at Center for Food Science and Nutrition, Addis Ababa University. The authors gratefully acknowledge Ethiopian Police University College for its sponsorship, Mr. Kelbessa Urga for his irreplaceable support, and the technical assistance of Addis Ababa University for helping in chemical analysis.
This study was cofinanced by a statutory activity subsidy from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education (Poland) for the Faculty of Food Sciences of Warsaw University of Life Sciences.
The authors would like to thank Covenant University Centre for Research Innovation and Discovery (CUCRID) Ota, Nigeria for its support in making the publication of this research possible.
The authors thanks Vidaproteina Ltd and Verdear Ambiental Ltd for technical support on insect rearing.
The authors thank CAPES and CNPq for their scholarships.
The authors gratefully thank the support from Biology and Microscopy Departments from the Centre of Investigation, Technology and Innovation from Seville University (CITIUS) for experimental assistance. 
Authors acknowledge the support of UPMU technical service.
We acknowledge support of the German Research Foundation and the Open Access Publication Fund of TU Berlin.
The authors thank the Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Sede Medellín, and the Universidad de Granada for the logistical and financial support provided for this research.
The authors acknowledge Miguel Leal from Scite for contributions to improve the quality of the manuscript. 
The authors are grateful to Sandro Tenti for technical support. Furthermore, the help of Barbara Contiero is also acknowledged for the statistical analysis.
The authors wish to thank the panelists, the Biogard company for providing the DEs, and the Cooperativa Maidicola (Sovicille, SI, Italy) for the technical assistance and for hosting the medium-scale toxicity experiment in their grain storage plant.
The authors extend their appreciation to the Deanship of Scientific Research at King Saud University for funding this work through College of Food and Agriculture Research Center. The authors thank the Deanship of Scientific Research and RSSU at King Saud University for their technical support. The authors extend thanks to their respective institutes and universities.
This research was supported by grants from the Brazilian agencies: Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior - Brazil (CAPES) - Finance Code 001 and PDSE 19/2016 - grant number 88881.133658/2016-01 and by the Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP, Brazil, grant number 2014/18929-9). The authors are also grateful for the University of Worcester for partial financial support.
This work was carried out as part of the activities of the Aromatic Plant Research Center (APRC, 
  
University of Camerino and the support from University College London are gratefully acknowledged. I.P.Parkin acknowledges the support from the EPSRC through the grant EP/G036675.  
This research was financially supported by the Natural Science Foundation of Zhejiang Province (No. LQ18D060005), National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 81803423), China Scholarship Council‐Local cooperation project (No. 201808330623), Specific research project of Guangxi for research bases and talents (No. 2017AD19029), 2018 Zhejiang province University Students Science and Technology Innovation Activity (Xin Miao Talent Program) (No. 2018R411049), and 2018 Zhejiang Ocean University Student Innovation Training Program (No. xj2018026 & xj2018031).
This work was supported by a Republic of Turkey Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, General Directorate of Agriculture Research and Policies, Research and Development Grant (TAGEM 16/AR‐GE/37).
We acknowledge OWSD/TWAS/SIDA and ASPIRE Food Group for funding this study.
The authors acknowledge Mr. Augustine Idu for helping to source the plant materials used in this study from the wild. The authors also acknowledge Mr Osamudiamen Ebohon and Mr Francis Irhabor for their unreserved laboratory support throughout this research.
The authors express their appreciation to the farm staff and personnel at the Lintao Huajia Animal Husbandry Co., LTD. for the care and feeding of the animals. The authors greatly appreciate the graduate students of the Gansu Agricultural University for their assistance with sample collection.
The authors would like to thank Dr. G. Cozzi, a product specialist from Nikon Instruments, for his support in the SRS microscopy implementation; Dr. M. Indolfi and Dr. V. Tufano (IMM-CNR) for their precious and constant technical assistance.
One of the authors, Dr. Johirul Islam thankfully acknowledges Director, Defence Research Laboratory (DRL), Defence Research and Development Organization, Ministry of Defence, Government of India for providing all the necessary facilities for this research work. Tinci Materials Technology Co. Ltd., Guangzhou, China is gratefully acknowledged for generously gifting Aquagel 35S
  
The authors would like also to thank Prof. Roger Uglow from the University of Hull (UK) for his contribution to revising the manuscript.
We thank Marilyn Robertson and Hagar Bach for helpful discussion. This study was partially supported by the Antibody Engineering and Proteomics Facility, Immunity and Infection Research Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Lisa Martel, Denise Schmidt, and Tatiana Morin helped with field and biogeochemical laboratory and data analyses. The map was created using ArcGIS
  
R.R. acknowledges the financial support provided by the 
  
Conceptualization, G.F.L, A.A.S.C., and R.R.; Methodology, G.F.L. and R.R.; Investigation, G.F.L., I.G., S.L., H.C., D.H.B., A.A.S.C., C.B.R., E.T.-N., and R.R.; Writing – Original Draft, G.F.L.; Writing – Review & Editing, G.F.L., C.B.R, A.A.S.C., and R.R.; Funding Acquisition, C.B.R., A.A.S.C., and R.R.; Resources, C.B.R., A.A.S.C., and R.R; Supervision, C.B.R., A.A.S.C., and R.R.
The authors have no conflict of interests to declare.
Not applicable.
FoodBAll is a project funded by the BioNH call (grant number 529051002) under the Joint Programming Initiative, “A Healthy Diet for a Healthy Life.” The project is funded nationally by the respective Research Councils including a grant from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) to DSW.
Not applicable.
The authors acknowledge the experimental support of the 
  
The authors would like to thank DHRTC for the financial support for the project and Aalborg University for supporting the publication charges of this review article.
The authors thank to Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (Conacyt) of México; Instituto de Ingeniería of Universidad Autónoma de Baja California, Facultad de Ciencias of Universidad Nacional de Colombia-Medellín (UNAL), and Programa de Fortalecimiento de la Calidad Educativa 2019 (PFCE).
We apologize to all authors whose work could not be cited due to space constraints. The authors thank C Hoffmann for editorial assistance.
We wish to thank members of the Nagel lab for helping with animal husbandry, particularly Sierra Baxter, Brittany Parmenter, Leighton McCabe, Anne Maas, Katelyn Cinnamon, and Kara Klemp.
The authors are grateful to the Export Testing Laboratory—APEDA, BCKV, Nadia, West Bengal, India for providing necessary technical supports while conducting the study.
Disclosure: 
  
The authors thank Mr. Guanghan Nie for his technical support with the research system.
This study was funded by Virginia Tech’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences John Lee Pratt Animal Nutrition Program and Interdisciplinary Graduate Education Program (IGEP) water INTERface. The authors also would like to thank Daniel Taylor for help in designing and building the RAS system.
To “Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) (grant number 151566/2018-6), Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES)- Finance Code 001, Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG), and “Programa Cooperativo sobre Proteção Florestal’ (PROTEF) do Instituto de Pesquisas e Estudos Florestais (IPEF)” for finantial support. David Michael Miller, a professional editor and proofreader and a native English speaking, has reviewed and edited this article for structure, grammar, punctuation, spelling, word choice, and readability.
This study was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2018YFD0901106), the Natural Science Foundation of Liaoning Province of China (20170540006), the Aquatic Products Processing and Safety Key Laboratory of Guangdong Province (GDPKLAPPS1805), and the Open Fund of the Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health (20171003).
This research was supported by National nature science foundation of China project (31400010). We thank Dr. Tian Xiao for technical assistance.
Authors are grateful to the University of Fort Hare, South Africa and Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, Lagos for providing a conducive environment for this study.
This project was financially supported by a Dutch SmartMix grant and by NIMIC partner organizations through NIMIC, a public–private partnership. I.M.N.G. acknowledges the Dutch organization for scientific research for her Veni fellowship. The Dutch organization for scientific research is also thanked for providing computing time on the Cartesius facility (grant numbers 15283 and SH-325-15). The authors thank Dr. Stig Helveg (Haldor Topsøe company), Dr. Bart Nelissen (Albermarle Corporation) and Prof. Dr. Eelco Vogt (Albemarle Corporation/Utrecht University) for fruitful discussions.
The authors wish to thank Patricia Oliveira and Felipe Fuentes, Fernanda Soto, Felipe Fernández, Esteban Torres, Isaac Rabi, Raúl Dupretzz, Ignacia Miranda and Karen Peñailillo for technical assistance.
The paper was supported by the project. The research leading to these results has received funding from the European Community under project no. 26220220180: Building Research Centre “AgroBioTech”.
Not applicable.
The authors acknowledge Martin Meijer and Alex Verkennis (Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute) for their technical assistance, and Bertus van den Burg (IMenz Bioengineering) for his comments. We also thank Jan Dijksterhuis and Frank Segers (Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute), and members of the Transport of Permeable Media group (Eindhoven University of Technology) for discussing the results of this paper. This research was supported by the Dutch Technology Foundation STW within the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO) partly funded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partners of this STW research project are Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute, Eindhoven University of Technology, TNO, Lambert van den Bosch, Stiho, Touchwood, and Regge Hout.
The authors are grateful to the Universiti of Putra Malaysia for their financial support.
This research is a part of an experimental program aimed toward a better utilization of the nutrients in animal feeding. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Romania supported this work through project ADER 6.1.1. We express our appreciation to Ioana Trifu and Vasile Bîrlogeanu for their valuable technical support. 
The authors would like to thank Jinan University (Guangzhou, China), Avignon University (France), INRA Avignon (France), Prince of Songkla University (Thailand), and Naturex (France), for the contribution to this study.
We acknowledge “Fondazione Minoprio” for the support to the project.
The authors would like to thank the Research Council of Norway for their financial support through the GreenEOR project (grant 244615/E30) in the Petromaks2 program, and through the Centres of Excellence funding scheme, project number 262644. The authors would also like to thank Per Olav Johnsen and Birgitte H. McDonagh for acquiring the AFM images. A big thank you to Martin Raphaug and Torleif Holt at SINTEF Petroleum for guidance and help during the core flood experiment. Thanks to Ole Tore Buset from the department of physics at NTNU for obtaining the micro-CT images at their X-ray laboratory. Lastly, the authors would like to thank Amin Hossein Zavieh at NTNU Nanolab/NorFab for acquiring the SEM images. The Research Council of Norway is acknowledged for the support to the Norwegian Micro- and Nano-Fabrication Facility, NorFab, project number 245963/F50.
We want to thank Barbara Carey for the English revision of the manuscript.
This work was supported by CIHR, Western Grain Research Foundation, Saskflax, ARDI and St Boniface Hospital Foundation.
The authors would like to thank Drs A. Prioreschi, B. J. Jenkins and S. Cohen for helpful discussions.
R.P.T. and S.W.J. acknowledge the support of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), UK via grant EP/N002520/1. S.K. work was supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council [grant numbers EP/N026985/1, EP/N025725/1].
We thank Dr. Su-Lin Leong for language editing of the manuscript. Our recent lignocellulose-related research was supported by The Swedish Research Council for Environment, Agricultural Sciences and Spatial Planning (Formas), grant numbers 213-2013-80 and 2018-01877.
Many thanks for the technical guidance of Jiaqi Wei, Yukun Jiao, Jiangyan Huo and Long Xia from school of pharmacy, Fudan University. 
This research was supported by the NutriOmics Research Chair Funds from Tecnológico de Monterrey. The scholarship of Daniela Guardado Félix (CVU-231081) was provided by Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACYT) and the Universidad Autónoma de Sinaloa.
We are grateful to the Mirabella and Cantina Sociale Bergamasca wineries for providing the Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon musts, respectively.
The authors would like to express their gratitude to Ernst van Jaarsveld (Kirstenbosch National Botanic Gardens, South Africa) for providing cuttings of the 
  
This work was supported by the sustainable applied biotechnology group within the strategic focus group of Bioprocesses Tecnologico de Monterrey, Campus Monterrey. The authors gratefully acknowledge the Water Center for Latin America and the Caribbean and Environmental Quality Center and Biotechnological Canter-FEMSA for their support with the laboratory facilities.
The authors are grateful to The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology (MEXT), Japan for financial support to Yusuf Andriana under Super Global University scholarship. The authors are also thankful to all of lab members for their support to this research. Thanks are also due to Nguyen Tat Thanh University, and 7A Military Hospital, Vietnam and Kume Sangyo, Japan for their partial support to this research.
The authors wish to thank the Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Universiti Putra Malaysia and Institute of Advanced Materials (ITMA), Universiti Putra Malaysia for providing the measurement facilities.
The authors would like to thank Yuri Roiter and Mark Mamac for their help with AFM and cryoSEM analysis, respectively. 
The authors are grateful to Prof. Mario Giorgi, University of Pisa, for his kind help in the construction of isobologram.
The authors are grateful to the Federal University of Reconcavo de Bahia and especially to Franceli Da Silva for providing us with their knowledge about essential oils.
The authors acknowledge Exentiae s.r.l. (Catania, Italy) for kindly providing us 
  
We would like to thank Natural Perfume Factory, Lanxi, Zhejiang province for providing the commercial oil samples.
Egle Milia thanks Salvatore Marceddu, Inst. of Biomolecular Chemistry, CNR, Sassari, Italy, for his technical support in the TEM analysis.
This research was funded by Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior-Brasil (CAPES), Fundação Cearense de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (FUNCAP), Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) and Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos-Brasil (FINEP). The authors would like to thank the professors from NAPO (Center for Analysis and Organic Research at UFSM) for providing the GC/MS chromatograms and spectra and A.F. Morel (Department of Chemistry at UFSM) for the assessment of the n-alkane series.
BES’s research was supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (Development Grant 1113712), Australian Cancer Research Foundation, the Victorian State Government Operational Infrastructure Support and Australian Government NHMRC IRIISS. BES is a Corin Centenary Fellow. RBG’s research was funded through grants from the Australian Research Council (ARC) and the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) of Australia, and Yourgene Bioscience Taiwan.
The authors acknowledge the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Ilorin, Nigeria for the kind donation of 
  
All the animals were well-catered for according to the criteria outlined in the ‘Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals’ prepared by the National Academy of Science and approved by the Ethical Research Committee of the University of Ilorin, Nigeria.
Thanks to the Universidad Estatal Amazónica for their financial support.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under grant No. 21520102008. The authors are grateful to Mr. Mingmao Wu from the Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University, for his generous help in the preparation of GO, Prof. Likun Yang from Xiamen University, for enzyme structure analysis, and Zhe Wang, for figure quality improvement.
The authors would like to thank Dr. Dun Deng, Dr. Zhichang Liu, Ms. Zhimei Tian, and Ms. Yiyan Cui for their help in the successful completion of this study.
This study was supported by the Presidential Foundation of the Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences (201802B, 201621) and Guangdong Modern Agro-industry Technology Research System (2016LM1080, 2017LM1080). We also would like to thank EditorBar (
   
The datasets supporting the conclusions of this article are included within the article.
We thank the European Research Council (ERC Adv. NAT‐CAT Reek) for financial support.
The authors would like to sincerely thank Dr. Karzan Qadr and Hassan H. Hama Amin in Biology Department, College of Science, University of Sulaimani, for their help to carry out this work which is a part of Ph.D. thesis.
Thanks are due to the Federal University of Tocantins and the Postgraduate Program in Biodiversity and Biotechnology, BIONORTE. The present work was carried out with the support of the Coordination of Improvement of Higher Education Personnel, Brazil (CAPES), Financing Code [001].
The authors would like to acknowledge An-Najah National University and Palestinian Ministry of Education and Higher Education for their support. This work was supported by a grant from the Palestinian Ministry of Education and Higher Education (Grant number: ANNU-MoHE-1819-SC011).
This work is supported by Jiangxi key project of scientific and technological innovation talents (“5511”project) (20171BCB18001), First-class discipline project of Jiangxi province: study on the regulation of neurological diseases by the essential oil of traditional Chinese medicine into the brain via olfactory pathway (JXSYLXK-ZHYA0092) and study on the curative effect of self-made refreshing and refreshing essential oil through sniffing pathway (JXSYLXK-ZHYA0091).
Not applicable.
