0: There is a growing interest in assessing the antimicrobial and antioxidant properties of substances from natural sources that can potentially be used by the food and pharmaceutical industries.
1: Essential oils from aromatic and medicinal plants have been known to possess biological activity [ 1, 2].
2: Oregano ( Origanum vulgare) is an aromatic plant with a wide distribution throughout the Mediterranean area and Asia [ 3].
3: Although oregano is an herb native to the European countries, it was also introduced to the Chilean territory more than 100 years ago [ 4].
4: In the arid Andean region, this plant is cultivated between 2800 and 3500 m above sea level.
5: It produces a very aromatic spice with a specific quality or characteristics that are essentially due to the arid geographical environment [ 5, 6, 7].
6: This spice has long been used as a medicinal herb in ethnopharmacological preparations to treat various ailments such as respiratory disorders, dyspepsia, painful menstruation, rheumatoid arthritis, scrofulosis, and urinary tract disorders [ 8, 9, 10, 11].
7: The high content of volatile essential oils is responsible for the antimicrobial activity, aroma, and flavor [ 12].
8: According to phytochemical studies on the essential oil composition of  Origanum vulgare and other related species, there is a wide chemical diversity, with a considerable intraspecific qualitative and quantitative variation in constituents is found [ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17].
9: Some studies have also reported the potential of oregano essential oil to preserve food such as salmon and seaweed burgers [ 18], fish, and meat products [ 19].
10: Different studies on the isolation and characterization of  O. vulgare essential oils from different world regions have been performed [ 20].
11: Nevertheless, there was no available information on the bioactive properties and characterization of  O. vulgare essential oil cultivated in the arid Andean region.
12: Therefore, this study aimed to describe the chemical composition of Andean  O. vulgare essential oil and evaluate the antimicrobial and antioxidant activity of the oregano essential oil, as well as its potential as a food additive.
