0: We collected data on fertilization, fruit set, and hybridization rates from individually marked flowers.
1: On each date that plants were observed, we marked up to 10 newly opened flowers on each pistillate plant with colored string tied to the pedicel.
2: Flowers were chosen haphazardly, as attempts to randomize flower selection were prohibitively slow.
3: We did make an effort to select flowers from different places on the pistillate plant, covering its full width and height.
4: We checked each flower for evidence of fertilization 9 to 17 days after it was marked and recorded fertilization success (persistent and swollen ovary) and followed the development of the same flowers through fruit maturation.
5: The flowers on the cyme of  C.  orbiculatus are all of equal rank, while the inflorescence for  C.  scandens is a panicle with a hierarchical structure.
6: The position on the inflorescence was recorded for each marked  C.  scandens flower in order to investigate potential differences in maternal investment and fertilization rate [see  44].
7: On 5 October and 11 October 2008, we recorded whether the marked flowers had successfully developed into mature fruits and collected those fruits.
8: Resulting seeds (three seeds per ovary) were prepared for germination according to the method described in Young and Young [ 45] and sowed in the greenhouse at the University of Illinois at Chicago after 90 days of cold stratification.
9: Greenhouse lighting relied on natural sunlight with an approximately 12-hour photoperiod.
10: Greenhouse temperature ranged from approximately 15C to 25C.
11: In total, 104 seedlings resulted from the original 716 marked flowers (43 seedlings from 317  C.  scandens flowers, and 61 seedlings from 399  C.  orbiculatus flowers).
12: We genetically tested the seedlings to determine the species identity of the pollen donor using the nuclear microsatellite DNA markers and statistical methods described briefly above and detailed in Zaya et al.
13: [ 29].
