0: Root traits were measured on two of the five individuals per species sampled for leaf trait measurements.
1: To obtain individual root traits, we dug up a soil cube (L  W  H: 10  10  10 cm) with the plant basal stem in the center, to excavate the most of the root system of the individual in a standardized way.
2: The soil cubes of two samples from the species  S. laeve in EcoUnit 1 had a height of around 7 cm, due to the loss of soil at the bottom part.
3: They were included in the analyses as the root system is mainly located in the upper 10 cm of the soil, and these samples were not detected as outliers in further analyses.
4: When not processed immediately, soil cubes with roots of plant individuals were stored in the dark in the fridge (4C) before being processed (maximum 3 days after collection).
5: Soil cubes were soaked in tap water.
6: The soil was then washed over a sieve with a 1 mm mesh, and only roots connected to the base of the plant were collected for further analyses allowing us to confirm the identity of species.
7: The same procedure as the one applied to community roots samples was applied to the roots of the collected individual.
8: Then, from the fine roots sample of each individual, a representative sub-sample of about one eighth [on average 0.43  0.43 g of fresh mass (mean  sd)] was used to measure fine root traits.
9: When too little root material was collected (which was mainly the case for the species  S. laeve), we measured fine root traits using the whole pool of fine roots of the individual.
10: Each sub-sample of the fresh fine roots at the community and individual level were scanned with an Epson Perfection 11000XL Scanner (Epson America, Inc., CA, United States) at 600 dpi in grayscale.
11: After scanning, all root samples (coarse, fine, and fine roots scanned) were oven-dried at 60C for at least 72 h and weighed.
12: Root scans of the community and each individual were analyzed with WinRhizo (Version 2013e Pro, Regent Instruments Inc., Canada), and root traits were calculated for the community and individuals.
13: We measured the root length (cm) at the individual level as well as the specific root length (i.e., the ratio of root length to dry mass of roots (m g 1)), root dry matter content (i.e., the ratio of root dry mass to root fresh mass (mg g 1)), average root diameter (mm), and root tissue density (i.e., root dry mass divided by fresh root volume; g cm 3) at the community level and on two individuals per species per EcoUnit.
