0: Simple SummaryMints are aromatic herbs with a millenary tradition of use for diverse medicinal purposes since ancient civilizations, and they are still presently used in different clinical practices.
1: Mints have been used since ancient Babylon, but it was in Classical Antiquity that their medical uses flourished, with major contributions from Pliny the Elder.
2: In the Middle Ages, the increased knowledge surrounding mints came from Byzantine physicians, while, in the Modern Age, technological developments allowed the production of mint-based products, such as extracts and essential oils, which have become part of elaborate galenic formulas employed by an increasing number of physicians, and have also stimulated both scientific and artistic interests alike.
3: In present-day medicine, several mints and mint-based products are being researched as potential therapeutic alternatives for many diseases, while also being vastly employed in food and cosmetic industries.AbstractMints have been among the most widely used herbs for medicinal purposes since ancient civilizations.
4: They are still presently used for numerous purposes, including non-medicinal, which makes them economically relevant herbs.
5: Information regarding the medical and scientific uses given to mints throughout history are vastly scattered and/or incomplete.
6: The aim of this paper is to provide an extensive descriptive overview of the medical uses given to these herbs, highlighting both the authors in medical culture responsible for their dissemination, as well as their major galenic formulations.
7: Databases on medical science, reference textbooks on medical history, botanics (aromatic herbs), and pharmacognosy were consulted.
8: The use of mints remotes to Classical Antiquity, with major contributions from Pliny the Elder.
9: In the Middle Ages, the increased knowledge surrounding mints came from Byzantine physicians, while, in the Modern Age, technological developments allowed the production of mint-based products which have become part of elaborate galenic formulas employed by an increasing number of physicians, as well as have also stimulated both scientific and artistic interests alike.
10: In present-day medicine, several mints and mint-based products are being researched as potential therapeutic alternatives for many diseases, while also being vastly employed in food and cosmetic industries.
