0: Food additives can be categorized [ 3] as preservatives, nutritional additives, flavoring agents, coloring agents, etc.
1: Some can belong to more than one category.
2: Food preservatives are compounds with antioxidant or antimicrobial properties.
3: Antioxidants supplements allow to delay or prevent decomposition of foods due to oxidation during industrial processing, packaging, or storing.
4: Compounds for this purpose include, among others, Ascorbic acid (AA) as an oxygen scavenger, and Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) or Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) as free radical scavengers.
5: Antimicrobial agents such as benzoic acid, natamycin, nitrates, sorbic acid, parabens, and others inhibit growth of bacteria or other microorganisms in foods.
6: Nutritional additives are usually added to enrich various foods with dietary supplements [ 4].
7: For example, vitamins are added to many foods to rise their nutritional value.
8: For example, Vitamin A and D supplements can be added to dairy and cereal products.
9: Vitamins B are added to flour, pasta, cereals, and baked goods.
10: Vitamin C is added to fruit beverages, cereals, and dairy products.
11: Probiotics, as well, are an example of an additive commonly added to dairy products to enrich the gastrointestinal flora with essential microbes.
12: Fatty acids, minerals, and dietary fibers are other examples of nutritional additives used to enrich food products.
13: Various texturizing agents are added during food production to supply the desired consistency of a product.
14: Our perception of product quality is often heavily influenced by its color.
15: Therefore,  colorants are added to create a standard product with an attractive color.
16: These coloring agents can be divided into two categories: natural or synthetic.
17: Natural colorants can originate from plants (e.g., strawberry (red), grape (blue), paprika (red/orange)), from animal or mineral sources, while artificial food colorants are usually petroleum-based chemical compounds (e.g., Brilliant Blue FCF, Indigotine, Fast Green FCF, Allura Red AC, Erythrosine, and Tartrazine).
18: The largest group of food additives, with more than 1200 different compounds that can create flavor or replenish flavors lost or diminished in processing is  Flavoring agents.
19: They can be only one chemical or a mixture of several chemicals drawn from natural or synthetic sources.
