So, this lecture is about
what genomic data science is. So, I'm going to try to quickly introduce
the major disciplines that comprise genomic data science and tell you what,
what we consider to be part of it. So, genomic data science is at the
intersection of biology, statistics and computer science. And we're calling it genomic data science. But it actually goes by many other names,
some of which you might have heard, such as computational genomics,
computational biology, bioinformatics, or statistical genomics. Regardless of which name you use, the
activities of genomic data scientists do all sort of fall into these same and
to similar categories. So what do we do in,
in genomic data science? We start with some, some,
let's talk about sort of humans, we start with some subjects. By the way, it doesn't have to be humans,
it could be mice or model organisms. But let's say we're talking about humans. We'd want to go and
collect some samples from those humans. So, those could just be,
if we're looking at normal development, we might just collect some
skin cells from normal people. And then prepare those samples in the lab,
send them for sequencing. The sequencer then generates enormous
amounts of data that we have to do something with. So what we typically will do
when we're looking at humans is, we take those sequences which
are very short fragments. We call those reads,
because you're reading the DNA, so I'll use the term reads, and
others will in this course as well. To mean a little bit of sequences
come off a sequencer which is part of someone's genome. And we take those reads and we align
them to the reference human genome, and there is one reference genome, for now. Which represents, for now,
sort of average northern European male. Oh, in the near future we're probably
going to have many other reference genomes as well. But in any case, we align these
reads to the reference genome and that tells us how the differ
from the reference genome. And also lets us kind of compile them
all up on one another and see how, see what sort of differences
there are even within the genome. Now, remember for every genome of a person you actually
have two copies of every chromosome. And that's because you got one
copy from mom and one from dad. So one of the things we study for example
at this phase, is how do your copies of those, of each gene differ between
the two copies that you have. And then once we've done some kind of
analysis we may deposit that data in a public database such as one
of the databases at N, at NCBI. And we apply many other types of analyses to these data sets to make more biological
conclusions about what's going on. So that's sort of very, very broadly
speaking, what genomic data science is. So we start typically
with experimental design. So if you're, if you're going to do
genomics, you have to first think about, well, I have a question,
a scientific question I want to answer. And I have to decide, well,
how much data do I need? How many subjects do I need? What kind of data we get? I've been talking about sequence data so far, but actually there's
various modifications we can do. Some new technologies that go by
names like ChIP-seq and methyl-seq. They'll let you study other
things about the genome as well. So the first thing you do is you, you
come up with an experimental design which if everything goes will you hope will
allow you to answer those questions. And that's really critical. If you don't, these experiments, even though we're generating a lot of
data far more cheaply than before, it's still is expensive and
time consuming to do these experiments. And you don't want to reach
the end of your experiment and discover that you simply don't have
the right data to answer your question. So once you've decided on
your experimental design, you generate your data,
these, then your typical, then you'll take those big data sets and
as I was saying a few minutes ago. The first thing you would typically do is
align them to the reference genome and find out how they're,
how they differ from that genome and assemble them together in some form. So that might, that might mean
that you're looking at say, if you've captured RNA from the,
from the cells. When you align them to
the genome you can see, for every gene in the genome,
how much of that gene was present. So, that's the kind of
thing that you would, you'd be doing at the pa, part where
you're aligning and assembling things. You might be assembling the genes that
were expressed in a set of cells or tissue you were studying. So, another big s, important step,
in this process is preprocessing and normalization of the data. Now these, because these data
sets are very big, there's, there's various types of,
of biases that can, that can come out. And this is sort of the, the law of large
numbers comes into play a lot here. Even, all of the technology that
we're talking about, even though I'm talking about it like it's very nice,
clean technology, it's not perfect. So the sequencing machine itself,
it makes mistakes. The process of collecting
the data introduces biases. We might collect more of
some tissues than others. We might collect some genes might be
representative of higher levels because of biases, not because of true bio,
biological differences. The sequences machines
themselves sometimes have have errors that are not random and
are hard to identify. And sometimes they have other errors that
are random and we can identify those and get rid of those. So we basically want to take
these big data sets and apply some computational and
statistical methods. To, to sort of correct as best we can
any kinds of systematic errors or any sort of bias that are in that data
before we move onto the next steps. So once we've got the data normalized,
preprocessed and normalized we then apply
a variety of techniques. That come from fields within statistics,
within computer science and within biology to,
to make our conclusions. So, so for example, in statistics and
machine learning scientists develop a wide variety of techniques, some of which
we'll talk about later in this course. To, to go from this preprocessed
normalized data to scientific conclusions. So, in order to then take
that normalized data and make this conclusions one of the things
that people within the field of genomic data science themselves
do is develop software. So when we've, once we've,
when we have an experiment and I'll just take one as an example. One that I'm, I'm,
very familiar with is RNAC. because RNAC, which we'll talk about
probably time and again in this course, is, is a set of experiments or
an experimental protocol. Where you can capture just the genes that
are being turned on in a set of cells. And you measure those by sequencing. And this is a pro, this is
an experimental, an experimental paradome. It's very popular. You can use it to study cancer. You can use, use it to study development. You can use it to study evolution and
hundreds or thousands of different
kinds of conditions. And because of that,
the experimental protocol for doing the RNAC part is more or
less standardized. That means that we can design
software that will in a more or less standardized way go from this raw sequence data to something which is more
amenable to making biological conclusions. What you really want when
you're doing RNA seq-, RNA sequencing is you would like
to know okay, I had my samples. I want to know in each sample
what genes were turned on and what levels were those genes present in? So there are,
there are software packages to do that, are developed by people in,
in genomic data science. And software development
of course requires, not just getting the code
to work one time. But also documenting it, making sure
it works for lots of different cases. So there's a lot of software engineering
kind of principles, and, and algorithmic principles that are important
in doing that sort of development. So another thing that we study
in genome data science is broa, another broad category of,
of questions, or population genomics. So, I've mostly been talking about
individual sorts of questions like what causes a cancer to be a cancer? But we can study other things too, such
as we can look at a population and ask, what makes a particular group of people
more susceptible to a particular type of disease? Or why do some people have, resistance
to a particular type of disease? So, or why do some people have certain
traits in their, in their population? So population genomics refers to looking
at, rather than looking at one person at a time or small groups, look at whole
populations and fi, and, and, and studying their genomes
to see how they differ. And how those differences lead to, to recognizable differences in,
in the people in those populations. So, so another way to,
to characterize genomics and to characterize some work in,
in genomic data science is, when we collect experiments of different
types and pull them all together. So you might call that
integrative genomics, you could also call it systems biology,
another popular term. But that refers to computational and
statistical activities where we're taking data that comes from sequencing
experiments, say of different types. As well as other kinds of measurements. They might be measurements
on what we call the proteon, measurements separate from the DNA. And integrating this all together
to make biological conclusions. So we would call that
integrative genomics.