0: In the past two decades, an explosive spread of North American blueberry hybrids ( Vaccinium corymbosum x  angustifolium) has been observed in several moors in the northern German geest area, endangering the natural development of these protected raised bog areas [ 8].
1: The starting point of the spread has been almost exclusively located at existing or former commercial blueberry plantations [ 9, 10], which can be found near or in the immediate vicinity of bogs or former peat extraction areas, due to good soil and local climatic conditions.
2: Most of the recipient habitats are pine forests and bogs in various stages of de- and regeneration.
3: Because of these characteristics, the American Blueberry ( Vaccinium angustifolium x  corymbosum) has been classified as a potentially invasive neophyte by the  German Federal Agency for Nature Conservation [ 11].
4: After the degradation of wetland areas due to anthropogenic activities, protection programs, called "Moorschutzprogramme", were established by the state government of Lower Saxony for the conservation and the development of rare animal and plant communities in these areas [ 12].
5: Furthermore, activities that could threaten the goals of the protection program are prohibited, which increases the difficulty of conducting relevant field studies [ 12].
6: However, maintenance and development measures are needed in order to rehabilitate protected and relatively sensitive wetland areas, into which the invasive blueberry species  Vaccinium corymbosum x angustifolium has migrated.
7: In 2011, 20 counties in Lower Saxony reported stands of spontaneously growing blueberry bushes [ 13].
8: The potential area that is occupied by spontaneously growing blueberry bushes can reach several square kilometres within a few years [ 14].
9: Previous studies, as presented in [ 10, 14], used grids in the field in order to plot the distribution of blueberry bushes within wetlands.
10: Both of the studies focused on sites near blueberry cultivation areas, as the biggest spread was found in close proximity to blueberry plantations [ 9].
11: Those studies show the limitations in the studied area and lack an overview.
12: It is still unclear how far the blueberry bushes have already spread and in which areas they occur.
13: In order to implement effective measures in these areas and minimise the disturbance of sensitive biotopes, it is necessary to locate the individual blueberry bushes as accurately and early as possible.
14: In addition, the following questions arise: does a displacement of natural species occur and where should what measures be taken against a continuing invasion?
15: According to [ 14, 15], relatively simple counter measures can lead to good results and prevent further spread, especially when invasive blueberry bushes are identified early.
16: Therefore, a suitable and non-invasive method for recording stock development and distribution is needed.
17: A simple tool is needed to rapidly, cost-effectively, and precisely detect invasive species in wetlands to counteract their rapid reproduction.
18: Wetlands are protected environments with limited ground accessibility making UAVs particularly appropriate for data collection.
19: UAVs offer the possibility to cover large areas with high resolution images, and they have proved their usefulness in a variety of studies in agriculture [ 16, 17] and forestry [ 18, 19, 20].
20: Still, UAV images present challenges like the pre-pocessing of the data.
21: Large amounts of data need to be processed, labeled, and annotated by experts, which is usually time consuming, before the data can be further analysed.
22: The use of deep-learning techniques reduces the amount of time that is needed to extract information from the data, which increases the benefits for several applications.
