0: All across the globe, environmental problems such as soil and water pollution and food contamination are continuously increasing, inducing many disasters and human tragedies.
1: The excessive and indiscriminate use of available pesticides to control the losses of stored crops and to reduce insect-borne diseases as malaria, filaria and trypanosomiasis induced disturbances in ecosystem functioning [ 1, 2].
2: Moreover, synthetic fungicides and fungal-drugs utilization to treat environmental and animal molds are not in a lesser class, when we talk about the negative effects and the appearance of fungicide-resistant pathogens [ 3, 4].
3: Therefore, there is an increasing concern to search for new highly selective and eco-friendly alternatives of beneficial pest control materials to feed the growing human population in a healthy environment.
4: Medicinal plants produce an arsenal of chemical compounds that alleviate various illnesses and rebalance human health.
5: Much attention has been focused on the study of plant extracts and essential oils due to their pivotal role as a source of phototherapeutics widely used to fight infectious diseases [ 5, 6].
6: Natural insecticides, fungicides and herbicides with promising effects have the properties to supplant or replace synthetic organic pesticides and therefore to avoid environmental contamination.
7: Hence, various applications of essential oils acting as safe fungicidal agents against a large number of molds and as environmentally friendly insecticides have been reported [ 7, 8].
8: It is noteworthy that the biosynthesis and accumulation of phytochemicals by medicinal herbs are influenced by environmental circumstances including temperature, climate, light and the region altitude [ 9].
9: According to the harvesting time and the environment in which they are found, the same plant species or subspecies may present different chemical compositions of essential oils [ 10].
10: Importantly, the nature of the produced secondary metabolites and essential oils influences the mechanisms of actions and determines the medicinal and economic utility of various plants.
11: In this context, differences in essential oils productivity, including an increase or decrease in the yields, and variation of the chemical composition depending on harvesting phase (vegetative, pre-flowering, flowering and fruiting), as well as the plant geographical origin have been previously investigated [ 11, 12].
