0: The essential oil was isolated from each mix (as described above one mix represented the raw material of one  T. pulegioides habitat) separately using 2 h hydrodistillation with Clevenger apparatus [ 69].
1: For further investigations essential oil solutions of 1% were prepared in the mixture of diethyl ether and  n-pentane (1:1).
2: Essential oils analysis was based on a GC-2010 Plus instrument equipped with a GC-QP 2010 Plus (Shimadzu) series mass selective detector in the electron impact ionization mode at 70 eV.
3: Separation of compounds was performed on fused silica (100% dimethyl polysiloxane) column (30 m  0.25 mm ID  0.25 m film thickness) (Restek, Bellefonte, PA, USA), splitless injection; helium as carrier gas at a flow rate of 1.6 mL/min, injector and detector temperatures 250 C. GC oven temperature program: initial temperature of 50 C (isothermal for 7 min) was increased to 250 C at the rate of 4 C/min to (isothermal for 5 min) and further increased at the rate of 30 C/min to 300 C, the final temperature kept for 2 min.
4: Identification of the investigated compounds was based on the comparison of retention indices (RIs) [ 46], computer mass spectra library (NBS75K) and analytical standards of -TA, -terpinene, p-cymene, limonene, -terpinene, linalool, nerol, geraniol, -caryophyllene, caryophyllene oxide, carvacrol, thymol (Sigma-Aldrich, Schnelldorf, Germany).
5: The retention indices were determined relative to the retention times of a series of n-alkanes (C7C30) with linear interpolation.
6: The quantitative analysis was performed using a FOCUS GC (Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) gas chromatograph with a flame ionization detector (FID) on the silica capillary column TR-5MS (30 m  0.25 mm ID  0.25 m film thickness) (Thermo Electron Corporation, Waltham, MA, USA) under the same chromatographic conditions.
7: The percentage amounts of the investigated compounds were recalculated according to the areas of the FID chromatographic peaks assuming that all constituents of the essential oil comprise 100%.
8: Only carvacrol, thymol, geraniol, linalool, and -TA identification was determined from plant material collected from natural habitats.
