0: Fusarium sporotrichioides, a filamentous fungi of the section sporotrichiella, necrotrophic pathogen associated with  Fusarium head blight of cereals.
1: [ 123]  F. sporotrichioides,  Fusarium acuminatum,  Fusarium Sambucinum, and  Fusarium poae are predominant species widespread in the soil and on plants, throughout the cold and cool regions of the world.
2: They invade cereal crops and are responsible for the production toxic metabolites such as type A trichothecenes: T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin, T-2 tetraol, T-2 triol, scirpentriol (STO), and diacetoxyscirpenol which may contaminate animal and human food.
3: [ 45678910111213] Trichothecene is sesquiterpenoid highly toxic; T-2 toxin and HT-2 toxin are potent inhibitor of protein synthesis and are highly cytotoxic to eukaryotes.
4: [ 14] T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin found to be contaminants in wheat, maize, barley, oats, rice, beans, and soybeans as well as in some cereal-based products and have played a role in plant diseases.
5: These toxins are an important agricultural problem due to their detrimental effects on both human and animal health.
6: [ 151617] Trichothecene has acute symptoms in man associated with high-level intake of trichothecenes include necrotic lesions of the oral cavity, esophagus, and stomach, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, and marked leukopenia.
7: [ 1819] Within the outbreak of the so-called alimentary toxic aleukia documented.
8: [ 1820] Therefore, control of  F. sporotrichioides growth in agricultural products is essential to reduce food-borne illness.
9: Several low-molecular organic acids antifungal chemical have been used to control the growth of  F. sporotrichioides during grain storage.
10: These chemical fungicides show serious health issues in humans and animals due to their toxicity by the migration of chemical residue into food chain and they also produce resistance in fungi.
11: [ 212223] Hence, natural plant components may act as an alternative to these chemical preservatives and fungicides.
