0: A Y-tube olfactometer system, previously described by Li et al.
1: [ 32], was used to test the orientation responses of SHB towards test samples (essential oil, -terpinene,  p-cymene, and thymol, each 1.25 ppm in acetone, separately) and control (acetone).
2: The Y-tube olfactometer ( Figure S3) was comprised of a central tube and two lateral arms (each 8 cm long and 18 mm internal diameter).
3: Each arm was connected to an odor chamber (cryogenic vial, 4.3 cm in height and 3.0 cm inner diameter, 20 mL) holding the test sample.
4: Each odor chamber had inlets for the incoming air and outlets for odors to exit the Y-tube.
5: A charcoal-filtered and humidified air stream was passed into each arm at a flow rate of 250 mL/min (DK-800 air pump) to allow experimental odors to move towards the decision-making area.
6: A mesh screen was placed at each of the endpoints of the olfactometer to prevent SHBs from escaping or coming in direct contact with the test samples.
7: Small hive beetles, of either sex, were starved for over 2 h, before being tested.
8: The test samples were separately applied to pieces of cotton.
9: A 10 l aliquot of each test samples was dripped onto a piece of cotton that had been placed inside one arm, and another piece of cotton permeated with 10 l of acetone was placed in the other arm of the Y-section as a control.
10: To prevent any positional bias in the behavior of the SHB, the relative position of the tested stimulus and its corresponding control were alternated between replicates.
11: A clean Y-tube was used for each test in order to avoid carryover of odors.
12: The Y-tube was illuminated with red light by means of an incandescent light bulb to preclude their use of visual cues during the experiments.
13: One SHB at a time was introduced into the Y-tube after the airflow had been initiated.
14: It was assumed to have made a choice when the SHB walked more than 2/3 the length of the treated source or control arm and stayed there for approximately 1 min or when it frequently visited the arm.
15: A no choice decision was recorded if the SHB had not moved after 5 min.
16: Each treated or control cotton was used only once and, then, was replaced with a fresh cotton for the next individual, and each individual SHB was used only once in the experiment.
17: A total of 50 SHB were used for individual test samples.
18: Response rate (%) and repulsion rate (%) of test samples on SHB in the Y-tube olfactometer were computed using a formula reported by Li et al.
19: [ 32].
20: (1)Response rate (%) = Responding SHBAll SHB tested 100(2) Repulsion rate (%) = Responding SHB-SHB showing attractionResponding SHB  100
