0: Recent developments and unique advancements in nanoscience and nanomaterials have established a novel platform for nanodrug delivery.
1: This significant approach provides nanomaterials with enhanced stability, solubility, and bioefficiency under metabolic conditions [ 1].
2: Due to its effective advantages and target specificity at lower doses, this nanodrug carrier system is used for investigating various natural components like phenolic compounds, triterpenoids, and polyacetylene substances [ 2].
3: Polymeric conjugates, polymeric nanoparticles, and polymeric micelles use metal and non-metallic nanoparticles for drug loading by encapsulation or chemical conjugation and it is to get better biocompatibility, immunogenicity, stability, and low leakage of drugs for an effective drug delivery system [ 3].
4: Though it is extremely slow in biodegradation, it has found its superior applications when we use multiple component systems to formulate each component effectively [ 4].
5: Many researchers recently started investigating an effective nanoformulation system using a green phyto extract and converging it with biotechnology for an improved drug delivery system [ 5].
6: Considering the safety, low cost, and no or fewer side effects, these plant extracts are very efficient for the safe delivery of drugs.
7: Furthermore, due to many active components like phenol, polyacetylene substances, and terpenoid presence in plant extracts, it acts as an efficient capping system for any metal carriers like zinc, silver, etc., owing to its interactions [ 6].
8: The main advantage of zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticle over other metal particles like silver and gold is, it can stay very active under intracellular conditions.
9: Hence, it can alter insulin resistance and further regulate chronic inflammation, lipid, carbohydrate, and protein metabolisms through enzymatic oxidative stress [ 7].
10: Insulin resistance and induced diminution of hepatic dysregulated hepatic lipogenesis is linked commonly with obesity [ 8].
11: Obesity is a multifaceted disease involving the storage of excessive fat in the body.
12: Various reports have investigated Zns concentration in the human body, which is considered toxic and has offered some indifferent results due to its level of ROS generating capability.
13: Studies suggest that Zns concentration has a direct influence on the lipid profile and a high impact on metabolic syndromes.
14: Interestingly, Zn has a close association with adipose tissue.
15: It has significant importance in reducing triglyceride; hence Zn metal aids in an ample supplement for hepatocyte activity and increases the livers lipid metabolism [ 9].
16: Additionally, this helps in weight reduction and TG level without any significant change in the glucose level and lipid profile [ 10].
17: Studies suggest that the early stages of adipocyte differentiation stimulates adipogenesis through multiple upregulation pathways induced due to the presence of Zn [ 11].
18: Considering these advantages of Zn metal, we prepared nano ZnO by integrating them with the traditional medicinal plant  Dendropanax morbifera (DM) as a natural capping agent for enriched efficacy and size [ 12].
19: Considering the applications of nano ZnOs as food supplements, nano ZnO, and a food additive, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has declared ZnO as GRAS (generally recognized as safe).
20: The primary advantages of nano ZnO is its safety with low production cost and having a wide range of biological functions as therapeutics and diagnosis to imaging [ 13].
21: Treatment with dissolved nano ZnO causes a rise in ROS concentration in the within the cells causing oxidative stress and leads to lipid neutralization [ 14].
22: Using these versatile components, we investigated the ancient  Dendropanax morbifera (DM) for ZnO nanoparticle preparation by coloading it with tryptophan using the O/W nanoemulsion method.
