0: Compared to other soil inhabiting microorganisms, bacteria are the most dominant and, therefore, primary microbial communities that play a fundamental role in biodegradation of PHC contaminants.
1: The various genera utilize hydrocarbons as carbon and energy sources [ 36].
2: The degradation potential of bacteria is harnessed with biostimulation using manure.
3: For example, cattle manure improves soil physicochemical characteristics, hence enabling adaptability of bacteria in contaminated soil [ 37].
4: Additionally, some manure compounds (such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium) are high-energy electron acceptors and sources of nutrients for bacteria.
5: Although the degradation potential of different bacteria varies [ 38], studies [ 39,  40] have reported  Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, Gordonia, Rhodococcus, Immundisolibacter, Luteimonas, Alcanivorax, Marinobacter, Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, Bacillus, Ochrobactrum, Sphingomonas, and  Hahella as the most active hydrocarbon degrading genera in rhizosphere.
6: However, the abundance of these genera in the rhizosphere of contaminated soils in the Sudd ecosystems is unknown yet; it is essential for harnessing bioremediation.
7: Furthermore, Mackova and colleagues [ 41] have shown that inoculation has limited efficiency to biodegrade hydrocarbons due to incompatibility between bacteria and plant species.
8: The deployment of efficient PHC biodegrading bacteria in contaminated soils needs to be coupled with the use of phytoremediation species that enhance their survival and growth [ 42,  43].
9: Thus, detailed characterization of rhizosphere bacteria is necessary to facilitate selection and use of efficient PHC biodegrading species of bacteria for inoculation during phytoremediation [ 44].
10: Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine the rhizobacteria communities influenced by phytoremediation species growing in cattle manure biostimulated crude oil contamination soils in the Sudd region using sequences of 16S ribosomal RNA.
