0: Counter-current chromatography (CCC) is kind of PC that holds the liquid stationary phase by gravity or centrifugal force.
1: CCC has rarely been used in early stages due to its poor stationary retention, long separation time and labor intensive process.
2: CCC was significantly improved in the 1980s, however, when modern CCC, including HSCCC and centrifugal partition chromatography (CPC), were developed.
3: The hydrodynamic CCC systems such as HSCCC have a planetary rotation movement around two rotating axes with no rotating seals, which offers a low pressure drop process.
4: Hydrostatic CCC, e.g., centrifugal partition chromatography, uses only one rotating axis and has a series of interconnecting chambers to trap the stationary phase which offers a higher retention of the stationary phase and a higher system pressure than that of HSCCC.
5: The high system pressure in CPC prevents the improvement of the resolution by increasing the length of the column.
6: High performance CCC (HPCCC) represents a new generation of hydrodynamic CCC and works in the same way as HSCCC, but with a much higher g-level.
7: The HPCCC instruments generate more than 240 g, while early HSCCC equipment gave g-levels of less than 80 g. HPCCC shortens the separation time to less than an hour compared to several hours in previous HSCCC and can achieve at least ten times the throughput of an HSCCC instrument [ 67].
8: Compared to the conventional column separation method using a solid stationary phase, both hydrostatic and hydrodynamic CCC systems offer some advantages including the elimination of irreversible adsorption and peak tailing, high loading capacity, high sample recovery, minimal risk of sample denaturation and low solvent consumption.
9: The limitation of CCC is that it only separates the compounds in a relatively narrow polarity window.
10: Over the past 20 years, HSCCC, HPCCC and CPC attracted great attention in separation science and have been widely used in the separation of natural products.
11: Tang et al.
12: developed an HSCCC method using a two-phase solvent system comprising ethyl acetate n-butanolethanolwater (4:2:1.5:8.5, v/v/v/v) to separate six flavone  C-glycosides ( 89 94, Fig.
13: 12), including two novel compounds from  Lophatherum gracile [ 68].
14: HSCCC, HPCCC and CPC have also been successfully applied in the separation of volatile oil, which is difficult to separate via conventional column chromatography.
15: Six volatile compounds (curdione ( 95), curcumol ( 96), germacrone ( 97), curzerene ( 98), 1,8-cineole ( 99) and  -elemene ( 100)) were isolated by CPC from the essential oil of  Curcuma wenyujin using a nonaqueous two-phase solvent system consisting of petroleum etheracetonitrileacetone (4:3:1 v/v/v) [ 69].
16: Four major sesquiterpenoids (ar-turmerone ( 101),  -turmerone ( 102),  -turmerone ( 103), and  E-atlantone ( 104)) with similar structures were separated from the essential oil of  Curcuma longa in a single HSCCC run using a two-phase solvent system composed of  n-heptaneethyl acetateacetonitrilewater (9.5/0.5/9/1, v/v) and each compound achieved over 98% purity [ 70].
17: Linalool ( 105), terpinen-4- ol ( 106),  -terpineol ( 107),  p-anisaldehyde ( 108), anethole ( 109) and foeniculin ( 110) were successfully isolated from the essential oil of  Pimpinella anisum by HPCCC using a stepwise gradient elution [ 71].
18: Li et al.
19: developed a CPC method for the separation of patchouli alcohol ( 111) with a nonaqueous etheracetonitrile (1:1, v/v) solvent system.
20: More than 2 g of patchouli alcohol with over 98% purity were isolated from 12.5 g of essential oil over a 240 ml column [ 72].
21: The large volume (several liters) column has been adopted in commercial hydrostatic CCC and hydrodynamic CCC equipment for pilot/industrial scale separation.
22: Few reports could be obtained due to commercial confidentiality.
23: It is difficult to judge whether hydrostatic or hydrodynamic CCC is better for industrial applications.
24: Users might select different types of CCC instrument for different purposes.
25: When the stationary phase is poorly retained in hydrodynamic CCC due to high viscosity and small density differences between the mobile and stationary phases, the hydrostatic CCC is more practical than hydrodynamic CCC because the retention of the stationary phase of hydrostatic CCC is less sensitive to the physical properties of liquid systems and will have a higher retention of the stationary phase.
26: When the stationary phase is well retained in hydrodynamic CCC, higher separation efficiency will be obtained from hydrodynamic CCC than from hydrostatic CCC with the same liquid system and similar column volumes because hydrostatic CCC has relatively low partition efficiency due to a limited degree of mixing, and the hydrodynamic system provides efficient mixing to yield a high partition efficiency.
