0: Background and Aim:As an alternative to natural and chemically synthesized direct-acting bactericides, there has been an increase in the use of plant extracts, which possess a set of phytochemicals with potential for microbial disease control; this is due to the spectrum of secondary metabolites present in extracts, which include phenolic compounds, quinones, flavonoids, alkaloids, terpenoids, and polyacetylenes.
1: The biologically active substances within plant extracts, which perform protective functions for plant tissues, can have ambiguous effects on the animal body.
2: Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the ability of gamma-octalactone, isolated from    Eucalyptus viminalis extract, to inhibit various LuxI/LuxR quorum-sensing (QS) systems in bacteria, and to evaluate its effect on broiler chickens.
3: Materials and Methods:Phytochemical analysis of    E. viminalis extract was performed.
4: The ability of gamma-octalactone to inhibit QS was evaluated using four different LuxI/LuxR bacterial test systems.
5: In vivo assessments were performed on one hundred and twenty 7-day-old broiler chickens (Arbor Acres cross), split into four groups of 30 chickens: 1.
6: Control group: Basic diet (BD); 2. experimental Group I: BD + gamma-octalactone at a dosage of 0.05 ml/kg live weight/day; 3. experimental Group II: BD + gamma-octalactone at a dosage of 0.1 ml/kg live weight/day; and 4. experimental Group III: BD + gamma-octalactone at a dosage of 0.2 ml/kg live weight/day.
7: Hematological blood parameters were assessed using an automatic hematological analyzer (URIT-2900 Vet Plus, URIT Medial Electronic Co., China) and an automatic biochemical analyzer (CS-T240, Dirui Industrial Co., Ltd., China).
8: Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS Statistics Version 20 (IBM); averages (M), standard deviations (), and standard deviation errors (m) were calculated.
9: Results with p0.05 were considered significant.
10: Results:Based on the phytochemical analysis results, libraries of compounds with putative QS inhibitory properties were compiled.
11: Gamma-octalactone exhibited a pronounced inhibitory effect on the LuxI/LuxR QS systems, characterized by EC   50 values of 0.15-0.4 mM.
12: In the    in vivo portion of this study, broiler chicken live weights increased in all experimental groups, with the most significant increase in Group III (14.0%), in relation to the control group.
13: Blood serum from the experimental group chickens had significantly higher levels of triglycerides and uric acid (p0.05), in comparison to the control group chickens.
14: With respect to blood serum enzyme activity and antioxidant status indicators, the experimental group chickens had a higher level of gamma-glutamyl transferase, an enzyme associated with amino acid metabolism, than those in the control group; this increase was especially pronounced in Group III, with 37.0% increase (p0.05).
15: Superoxide dismutase and catalase levels were higher in the experimental groups than the control group, corresponding to increases of 30.4-56.2% (p0.05), 33.3-83.3%, and 27.9-45.5% (p0.05) in Groups I, II, and III (p0.05), respectively.
16: Morphological blood parameters did not display significant changes due to gamma-octalactone.
17: Conclusion:According to the results of this    in vivo study in broiler chickens, gamma-octalactone, isolated from    E. viminalis leaf extract and supplied at a dosage of 0.2 ml/kg live weight/day, led to an increase in the activity of blood plasma digestive enzymes, increased live weight, and had a positive effect on lipid metabolism and antioxidant status.
