0: Resin type: Resinincluding modern resin, subfossil copal, and fossil amberexhibits extensive chemical and physical variation [   1,    20   23] and the preservation of fossils in amberboth presence/absence of complete taxa and their preservational qualityvaries between the major amber chemical groups [   9].
1: Thus, resin properties (physical and chemical) are likely to exert a significant control on fossil preservation in amber.
2: Physically, resin acts as a barrier to infiltration by external decay agents such as scavengers, fungi, and bacteria [   1,    2]; variations in physical properties such as permeability and viscosity may influence the effectiveness of the physical barrier.
3: But it is the chemistry of the resin which is thought to be critical for exceptional preservation of fossils in amber [   1,    24,    25], influencing decay by acting as an antiseptic, inhibiting bacterial and fungal growth and dehydrating the tissues [   25   27].
4: The major amber chemical groups show variation in preservation quality [   9]; there is generally better preservation in Class D amber (e.g.
5: Dominican amber, with 93% of specimens preserving internal soft tissues) than in Class A amber (e.g.
6: French Charentes amber with 0% of specimens preserving internal soft tissues [   9]).
7: However, this broad pattern is complicated by preservational variation within the major amber chemical groups, (e.g.
8: Lebanese amber, which is in Class A, has exceptional preservation reminiscent of a typical Class D amber [   9]).
9: To date the influence of resin chemistry on decay has not been experimentally investigated.
10: The only experiment designed to test the role of the entombing medium in preservation encased flies in wax and maple syrup, and compared them to a fly left in air [   24].
11: Wax and maple syrup are chemically very distinct, but are not good proxies for tree resin in a number of ways including, significantly their chemistry.
12: However, this experiment did show enhanced decay in wax and decreased decay in maple syrup compared to the control [   24], suggesting that the chemical composition of the entombment media is more important than the physical barrier provided through entombment.
13: Dehydration prior to entombment: It has been suggested that dehydration of the carcass prior to entombment will result in better preservation of the resulting fossil inclusion, and may particularly promote the preservation of labile internal tissues [   11].
14: This scenario may occur if, for example, an insect is stuck on the surface of a resin flow, dies and subsequently dehydrates in air prior to another flow entombing it.
15: Gut microbiota: Microbes are central to exceptional preservation of soft-bodied animals in sediments; their action on organically-composed anatomy may result in its loss through decay, or its preservation by mediation of authigenic mineral replacement [   28,    29].
16: Microbes may be exogenous or endogenous, and the latter are likely to be more important in amber preservation because once entombed an organism is protected from exogenous bacteria[   1,    24].
17: We focus here on the gut microbiota as they are known to be abundant and important in preservation [   18].
