0: Many authors stress the relationship between a suitably balanced diet and the condition of the human body, including the appearance and functioning of the skin [ 14, 15, 16, 17] (Table 1).
1: The intake of essential nutrients in the daily diet is extremely important for the biological processes taking place in both young and ageing skin [ 15, 18].
2: The skin is a tissue with high proliferative potential, which is why an adequate intake of proteins, carbohydrates and fats, which are essential for cellular generation, is so important [ 18, 19, 20].
3: The overall condition of the skinits surface texture, color, and physiological propertiesresults from factors such as hydration, i.e., the presence of an adequate amount of water in the stratum corneum, sebum content and surface acidity.
4: Natural moisturizing factor (NMF), consisting mainly of amino acids, plays an important role in hydration and acidity [ 15, 21].
5: Specific fatty acids are also important for maintaining the function of the skin barrier and the integrity of the stratum corneum [ 22].
6: Research increasingly suggests that a well-balanced diet significantly affects the skin ageing process.
7: Functional anti-ageing ingredients in food include substances involved in the synthesis and metabolism of skin components (e.g., protein peptides and essential fatty acids) and those that inhibit the degradation of skin components and maintain its structural integrity (e.g., substances regulating the expression of enzymes such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and activating protein 1 (AP-1)) [ 18].
8: Due to their ability to protect the skin from harmful UV-induced effects through their antimutagenic, antioxidant and free-radical-scavenging properties, some dietary botanicals could be useful supplements for mature skin care [ 23, 24].
9: These include carotenoids and polyphenols, such as apigenin (a flavonoid occurring in numerous herbs, fruits and vegetables), quercetin (a flavonol found in onion skin and apple peel), curcumin (obtained from the turmeric rhizome), silymarin (a standardized extract of flavonolignans from milk thistle), genistein (an isoflavone from soybeans), proanthocyanidins (from the seeds of grapes), and resveratrol (a polyphenol found in grapes, peanuts, fruits, red wine and mulberries).
10: Other key elements of an anti-ageing diet are vitamins and minerals with antioxidant properties [ 15, 25].
