0: Up to now, several plant-derived secondary metabolites, mainly phenolics, have been described to reveal activities against these pathogens.
1: Among them the most interesting are phenolic acids (e.g., caffeic acids derivatives), flavonoids (e.g., ()-epicatechin, quercetin), and volatiles, including essential oils and their components, e.g.
2: : thymol, carvacrol or eugenol [ 9].
3: The antibacterial activity of phenolic acids is well-documented, especially when regards to rosmarinic acid.
4: This compound shows potential in the control of  Bacillus subtilis,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa,  E. coli, S. aureus,  Shigella spp., and  Enterobacter [ 10, 11, 12].
5: It has an inhibitory impact on the proteins of the microbial surface recognizing adhesive matrix molecules, what leads to damage to the bacteria cell wall [ 13].
6: Moreover, the presence of a carboxylic acidic group enables ionisability and/or the formation of salts with mineral cations, what was also observed in the case of antibiotics such as, e.g.
7: daptomycin [ 14].
8: The activity of other phenolic acids, including chlorogenic acid, is based on a similar mechanism of action [ 2, 15].
9: In the group of phenolic compounds, flavonoids exhibit a strong antibacterial activity expressed in an inhibition of nucleic acid synthesis, inhibition of cytoplasmic membrane function and by disorders in the energy metabolism of bacterial cells [ 16, 17, 18].
10: Volatiles show well-known antibacterial potential, especially essential oils and their components, e.g.
11: carvacrol and thymol.
12: Due to their hydrophobic nature, they are able to cross the lipid bilayer of cell membrane causing a loss of its integrity and leakage of cellular material.
13: Unlike many antibiotics, these compounds gain access to the periplasm of Gram-negative bacteria such as  E. coli and  Salmonella typhimurium through the porin proteins of the outer membrane, and finally damage it irreversibly [ 19, 20].
14: It is worth noting that the precursor of carvacrol,  p-cymene, is not an effective antibacterial agent when used alone.
15: However, when combined with carvacrol, synergism has been observed.
16: When  p-cymene is incorporated into the lipid bilayer, the transport of carvacrol is visibly facilitated [ 1, 21].
17: Thus, the works on antibacterial and antioxidant activity should focus not only on single compounds but especially on complex extracts or their fractions.
