0: Plants rich in the abovementioned compounds are therefore a promising source of natural antimicrobial and antioxidant agents.
1: Among this group, the genus  Origanum (Lamiaceae) has gained particular attention because of its interesting chemical composition reflected in a dominance of phenolic compounds in both the volatile and non-volatile fractions [ 28].
2: O. vulgare, with six subspecies identified within this taxon, is an aromatic perennial sub-shrub, characterized by a high intraspecific variability.
3: Each subspecies is associated with a main chemotype created on the basis of the sabinyl or cymyl pathways of monoterpenes biosynthesis, where only the second one leads to the formation of phenolic monoterpens (thymol/carvacrol) [ 29, 30, 31].
4: Two  O. vulgare subspecies are especially important from an economic viewpoint, namely  Origanum vulgare L. subsp.
5: hirtum (Link) Ietswaart and  Origanum vulgare L. subsp.
6: vulgare.
7: The first one also called Greek oregano, originates from the Mediterranean region and is especially valued due to the presence of pure carvacrol chemotypes (up to 80% carvacrol in the essential oil) [ 32, 33].
8: The second one (common oregano) occurs on the Northern and Central Europe area as the only representative of the genus [ 34].
9: Both are cultivated and used commercially in the pharmaceutical, food and cosmetic industries and are known not only for antioxidant and antimicrobial, but also diuretic, expectorant, stimulative, carminative, antispasmodic, and anticancer activities [ 35, 36, 37].
10: It is known that antioxidant and antimicrobial activity of oregano-derived products is associated with the predominance of carvacrol and/or thymol in its essential oil followed by rosmarinic acid and its derivatives within the non-volatile fraction [ 1, 9, 22, 33, 38, 39, 40].
11: Although there is a large literature database concerning this issue, some problems are apparent.
12: Previous studies on  O. vulgare subspecies are numerous, however they seem to be incomplete, since their biological activities have usually been determined separately from the chemical composition.
13: Given the subtle morphological differences between  O. vulgare subspecies, they are often confused, not discriminated and/or treated as a collective taxon.
14: Taking into account that each subspecies is usually assigned to its corresponding main chemotype (conditioning its biological properties), such mistakes may lead to wrong conclusions, especially when a raw materials activity and application are concerned [ 33].
15: Another problem is related with the extraordinary variability of  O. vulgare, where each subspecies itself is able to form various morphologically undistinguishable chemotypes [ 41, 42, 43, 44].
16: These altogether may cause evident difficulties in practice, since non-phenolic chemotypes will not display the expected biological activity.
17: It seems that in order to counteract such problems, oregano herb standardization should include subspecies identification combined with chemotype recognition.
