0: Our database of invasive species was compiled from published literature including research articles, dissertations, and reports from local governments and conservation organizations (see Appendix  S1 in Supporting Information for bibliographic references).
1: We only included alien spermatophyte species classified as invasive on the original sources consulted.
2: These sources followed standardized criteria (e.g., Beck et al.,  2008; Richardson et al.,  2000) to classify species as invasive: (1) species are nonnative, (2) they have established in new habitats without direct human assistance after their introduction, and (3) they are spreading over considerable areas causing negative (economic or environmental) impacts.
3: We verified the invasive status and filtered the data by examining additional sources (specialist revisions, scientific publications, and herbarium collections).
4: Species occurring exclusively in humanmade habitats such as gardens and parks were excluded from the analyses.
5: Similarly, species with unreliable records or uncertain origin (i.e., listed as both native and alien) were also excluded.
6: The species entries were supplemented with data on their taxonomy, native distribution, life form (aquatic herb, grass, herb, shrub, succulent, tree, vine), life history (annual, biennial, perennial), type of introduction (intentional, unintentional, escaped), and planting purposes/uses (ornamental, agriculture/food crops, forage/fodder, agroforestry, soil improver, timber tree) obtained from a list of data sources included in Appendix  S2.
7: Habitat categories were used to classify species occurrence in: agricultural habitats (traditional agriculture lands), ruderal (humanmade habitats, excluding agriculture lands), seminatural (low to medium disturbed areas, including secondary forest), and mature forest (very low disturbed areas) (Lloret et al.,  2005; RojasSandoval & AcevedoRodriguez,  2015).
8: Note that some species can occur in more than one habitat or can be assigned to several planting purposes/uses categories.
9: Similarly, if the native distribution of a species covers more than one continent, it is assigned to each of them.
