0: Photosynthesis is the most sensitive biological process affected by high-temperature stress, and is closely related to plant metabolism and growth performance.
1: The photosystem II (PSII) reaction center and CO 2 assimilation are the main targets that are vulnerable to high temperature stress.
2: The PSII reaction center is one of the most heat-sensitive components of the photosynthetic apparatus, and the expression of genes involved in regulation of photosynthesis will be affected by high temperature [ 11].
3: It has been found that the electron donor side of PSII is a primary damage site, and oxygen-evolving complex (OEC) activities were found to decrease under high temperature [ 4].
4: High temperature can also affect the process of carbon assimilation, by inhibiting the activities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rubisco) and rubisco activase (RA) and reducing the photosynthetic rate of plants [ 12].
5: Apart from this, high temperature increases the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), including singlet oxygen ( 1O 2), superoxide anion (O 2), hydrogen peroxide (H 2O 2), and hydroxyl radical (OH).
6: Various subcellular organelles including chloroplasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes are the common sites of ROS production.
7: The excessive production of ROS can damage enzymes, cellular proteins, DNA and RNA, eventually resulting in the death of cells [ 13].
8: Membranes are the targets of HT stress and membrane lipid composition is a crucial factor for temperature tolerance or susceptibility.
9: HT stress causes damage to thylakoid membranes, increase lipid peroxidation, and cause membrane damage [ 14].
10: Plants have developed an efficient antioxidative system with enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants, which can reduce ROS up to a certain level.
11: These antioxidant enzymes are superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR), glutathione reductase (GR), and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), which are found in different organelles or subcellular compartments.
12: Previous studies have shown that the changes in the gene expression of antioxidant enzymes may contribute to plant molecular adaptation, and maintaining a high level of antioxidant transcripts may play a key role in protecting plants from oxidative stress [ 15].
13: Zhao et al.
14: found that the heat-acclimated plant  Orchardgrass maintained high levels of gene expression encoding SOD, CAT, and POD enzymes under heat stress [ 16].
15: In addition, Flavonoids, carotenoids, ascorbate, tocopherols, phenolics, and glutathione serve as potent non-enzymatic antioxidants in plants.
16: A previous study showed that the thermal stability of the photosynthetic apparatus of  S. trilobata is higher than that of the  S. calendulacea.
17: On exposure to HT,  S. trilobata has an effective regulatory mechanism in the energy partitioning of PSII complexes by increasing the xanthophyll-dependent thermal dissipation ( NPQ) and decreasing slightly the proportion of constitutive thermal dissipation ( f,D) [ 10].
18: However, the mechanism of antioxidant activity has not been reported in depth.
19: Many researchers have focused on the physiological level of two Sphagneticola species under adverse conditions [ 17, 18].
20: Nevertheless, the expression patterns of genes involved in photosynthesis and antioxidant systems in response to adversity is not clear.
21: Thus, we compared the antioxidant activity, photosynthetic and gene expression patterns of two Sphagneticola species under high temperature.
22: The insights from this study will help us further study the molecular mechanism of thermoregulation of  S. trilobata.
