0: The seeds of the tobacco plant are very small, but they come in an extremely large quantity per plant.
1: They can be preserved for a long time if they are stored in dry conditions, are resistant to rather high humidity at ordinary temperatures, and have a strong shell.
2: The tobacco seeds' endosperm contains thin-walled cells rich in oil.
3: Tobacco seed oil is a final product of seed production that contains more than 30% of seed oil after extraction [ 1].
4: Tobacco seeds contain a large number of cellulose, proteins, starch, and minerals [ 2].
5: It is widely known [ 3 7] that tobacco seed consists of palmitic, stearic, oleic, linolenic, and linoleic acids; various amino acids; and also saturated, unsaturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fatty acids [ 8 12].
6: Hence, the tobacco seed oil is classified as a linoleic acid, which falls in the category of semidrying oil.
7: The tobacco seed oil belongs to the semidrying oil category because it contains triglycerides of acids of linoleic series.
8: However, due to high degree of unsaturation, the tobacco oil is susceptible to autoxidation and polymerization, which results in cross-linked and tough film upon exposure to air.
9: There has already been research into the industrial, pharmaceutical, and food use of the tobacco plant.
10: Tobacco oil is considered as a unique product due to squalene composition.
11: Squalene has an immunostimulatory and anticancer activities and also contributes cholesterol metabolism normalization.
12: Research group of La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science (Australia) at the head of Marc Hulett found out NaD1 molecules in tobacco flower that the antifungal activity has been attributed to its ability to permeabilize membranes and also inhibits tumor cell growth.
13: At present researchers of Hexima ag-biotech company (Melbourne, Australia) are carrying out preclinical trials of NaD1 [ 13].
14: Thus, the tobacco plant has demonstrated its potential value beyond traditional uses.
