0: The Brazilian investigators Giordani and collaborators demonstrated in a series of studies the potential of extracts of the Amaryllidaceae plant family and their bioactive alkaloids to inhibit the growth of  T. vaginalis as well as their anti-trichomonad mechanism of action.
1: The following are highlights of some of their findings.
2: The Amaryllidaceae plant family is known for its ornamental value and is also of medicinal interest owing to the occurrence of alkaloids with biological properties.
3: Vieira, Giordani [ 23] evaluated the anti- T.  vaginalis activity of eighteen methylene chloride (dichloromethane) extracts (12.5 to 0.19 mg/mL) and isolated six alkaloids (125 to 1.9 g/mL) from the Amaryllidaceae species.
4: The alkaloids diminished the viability of the trophozoite stage (from 15 to 40%).
5: The extracts from  Hippeastrum breviflorum demonstrated the highest anti- T. vaginalis activity (viability was reduced by 60%).
6: Six fractions from a bioguided study with antiprotozoal activity had lycorine and lycosinine (Fig.
7: 2) as major anti-parasitic components.
8: The higher activity of the extracts when compared with activities of the isolated compounds suggests a synergistic effect of multiple compounds in the extracts.
9: Vieira, Giordani [ 23] used the following procedure to obtain the extracts and isolated alkaloids.
10: The crude extracts obtained after maceration of fresh bulbs in 96% ethanol at room temperature for 15 days were acidified with a solution of 10% HCl.
11: The neutral material was then removed with petroleum ether, the solution was adjusted with 25% ammonium hydroxide to pH 910, and then extracted with dichloromethane and  n-butanol.
12: The alkaloids were then isolated by chromatography and their purity and structures confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), nuclear magnetic resonance, and mass spectrometric analyses.
13: The described methods offer a useful guide for future efforts designed to obtain pure bioactive compounds from plant sources.
14: Giordani, Weizenmann [ 15] reported that the Amaryllidaceae alkaloids candimine and lycorine inhibited  T. vaginalis nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase and ecto-5-nucleotidase activities, possibly enhancing the susceptibility of the pathogen to host immune responses.
15: The mechanisms of alkaloid-induced cell death seems to involve the arrest of the cell cycle by a pathway that does not involve criteria that are associated with apoptosis or apoptosis-like death [ 106].
