0: The oldest written records of mint herbs are attributed to King Hammurabi of ancient Babylon (1800 BC), who prescribed them for medicinal purposes, namely gastrointestinal [ 13].
1: Mints are also referred to in the Ebers papyrus and on the walls of the temple of Horus in Edfu [ 14, 15].
2: A great deal of knowledge on the mints usage was acquired during classical antiquity by Greek and Roman philosophers, especially Gaius Plinius Secundus (Pliny the Elder, 2379), who described most of the medical uses that would be given to these herbs throughout the history of western medical practice in his  Naturalis Historia (Natural History) [ 16], an important work that would be the reference for several posterior medical texts.
3: Knowledge of these herbs spread throughout the Middle East, partly due to the conquests of Alexander the Great (356 BC333 BC) and later to the Crusades [ 17].
4: Given their many uses, mints became valuable herbs and were probably used as currency by the Pharisees, as can be inferred from two passages from the Bible: (...) Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
5: For you tithe mint, dill, and cumin, and have left undone the weightier matters of the Law: justice, mercy, and faith (...) (Matthew 23:23) and (...) But woe to you Pharisees!
6: For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, but you bypass justice and the love of God (...) (Luke 11:42) [ 18].
7: Several references are also found in the Babylonian Talmud, a compilation of Jewish teachings on several knowledge areas that contains many pieces of practical advice of a medical nature [ 19].
8: In the Middle Ages, medical and scientific learning shifted to Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire, with the majority of important references to mints coming from Islamic physicians, such as Ibn Sinna (Avicenna, 9801037), author of  Canon of Medicine [ 20].
9: In Christian Europe, medical knowledge was kept mostly in universities and monasteries by physician-monks, where the teachings of classical philosophers were still followed [ 17].
10: Charlemagne (c. 747814), leader of the Holy Roman Empire and founder of the first medical school in Salerno in the 9th century, ordered medicinal plants, in which mints were already included, to be cultivated inside state-owned land, as stated in his  Capitulare de villis [ 21].
11: The Renaissance period allowed a change to medico-scientific paradigms and the progressive abandonment of empiric frameworks as regards medical plants to embrace more experimentally ascertained facts.
12: This was also a period of artistic flourishment, when the printing press was invented which facilitated the dissemination of literary works [ 22].
13: Incidentally, one of the first  incunabula (i.e., earliest printed books, between 1450 and 1500), the famous and obscure  Hypnerotomachia Poliphili (Poliphilos Strife of Love in a Dream) attributed to the Italian Dominican priest Francesco Colonna (c. 14331527), features several mint species among the numerous botanical varieties described in the storys oneiric landscapes [ 23].
14: The 16th century was marked by the rupture with the orthodox medical doctrine based on the theory of humors, and a new doctrine emerged called  nova medicina, which was rooted in alchemy, astrology, magic, and natural philosophy.
15: The advent of iatrochemistry made possible for new plant extracts and essential oils to be prepared, some from the recently discovered New World, which increased the number and variety of available medicine products [ 24].
16: The development of pharmaceutical technology from the 19th century onward has largely contributed to the diversification of mint-based products [ 25].
17: Peppermint essential oil, for example, became such a popular medicine in the 19th century that it found its way into the post-impressionistic painting  Still Life with Peppermint Bottle by French painter Paul Cezanne [ 26].
18: Apart from being a source of inspiration to artistic expression, mints also aroused curiosity in the emerging scientific fields.
19: For example, one mint species was used by Joseph Priestley (17331804) in his pioneering studies on photosynthesis [ 27], while Charles Darwin (18091882) used peppermint essential oil for his studies on botanics [ 28].
20: Mint active compounds concentrate mainly in the leaves of herbs, which can be used by dry grounding them into powder or fresh and being subjected to solvent extraction or steam distillation, the latter of which produces mint essential oils.
21: These oils contain a variety of volatile compounds and are widely used in food, cosmetic, and perfume industries, largely for their flavoring, fragrance, and preservative properties, which make them very economically valuable.
22: The cultivation and processing of mint herbs is a very large business and one that is responsible for a considerable part of the economy of many countries [ 4].
