0: Oxidative stress (OS), occurring through cellular damage as the major cause of defective generative function, arises from an imbalance of cell redox reactions, which is due to the formation of reactive oxygen/nitrogen species (ROS and RNS, respectively), such as superoxide anion (O 2), peroxide radical (OOH), singlet oxygen ( 1O 2), hydroxyl radical (OH), nitric oxide (NO), and peroxynitrite (ONOO ).
1: These reactions occur in human cells because of endogenous and exogenous factors, and are responsible of several human-related diseases [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5].
2: OS is involved in several acute and chronic pathogeneses of aging and degenerative diseases, such as atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer [ 5].
3: It has recently been shown that ROS, as secondary messengers, are the mainstay in cellular signaling and participate in protein synthesis, cell proliferation, cell survival, differentiation, inflammation, and glucose metabolism [ 6, 7].
4: Antioxidants are compounds that can delay and inhibit or prevent the oxidation of oxidizing substances by scavenging free radicals and reducing oxidative stress, as these are the main cause of the development of chronic degenerative diseases, such as coronary heart disease, cancer, and aging.
5: As plant-based natural products, essential oils and their bioactive molecules are a starting point for the development of lead compounds, and have been approved therapeutically as drugs for their potential antioxidant capacities.
6: These can be attributed to the presence of terpenes, as well as the phenolic compounds that significantly enhance free radical scavenging activity, and therefore can substitute for synthetic antioxidants [ 8, 9, 10, 11].
7: They possess versatile applications in cosmetics, food preservation, beverages, and fragrances, as well as multidimensional and multivariate biological properties, mainly anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antioxidant, anticancer, and antiviral powers, as well as the prevention of cardiovascular and degenerative diseases [ 12, 13, 14, 15, 16].
8: Indeed, drugs obtained from plants, such as essential oils, are generally acclaimed for their effectiveness, simple accessibility, and their lack of side effects.
9: Their attractive effects are continuously growing, due to their usefulness for culinary, medicinal, and other anthropogenic applications.
