0: Oil palm ( Elaeis guineensis Jacq.)
1: is an economically important perennial crop in Malaysia which requires regular input of large amount of P fertilizer to sustain optimum oil yield.
2: Starting from immature stage in the nursery, oil palm seedlings require intensive maintenance to attain maximum vegetative growth with well-balanced nutrition to produce high yielding mature oil palm trees.
3: Sudradjat et al.
4: [ 20] reported that the application of P fertilizer at the optimum rate of 4.24 g plant  1 during six months at the main nursery linearly increased the total leave number and stem diameter of oil palm seedlings.
5: Whilst reduction of leaf surface area, leaf expansion and leaf number were observed in Pi deficient oil palm seedlings which was later on reflected in lower biomass of fruit bunches produced at harvest [ 21].
6: In addition, young palms and seedlings that experienced insufficient Pi resulted in reduced plant height, stem girth and poor root development [ 2].
7: Phosphate rock is extensively used as P fertilizer for mature oil palm plantation in Malaysia, mainly attributing to its cheap price, rapid P dissolution and high P sorption capacity under rainfall and acidic soil conditions in the country [ 22,  23].
8: Predicted future scarcity of non-renewable rock Pi has been reflected by the US and China having stopped their export for strategic reasons [ 24].
9: Hence it is easy to foresee that the price of rock Pi will rise due to its increasing demand from all around the world and consequently the increase in oil palm production cost.
10: With the soaring global demand for edible vegetable oils in conjunction with the growing world population, palm oil production will become increasingly important as it is expected to meet 65% of the 240 million tonnes demand by 2050 [ 25].
11: One of the approaches to reduce the impact of the predicted Pi source scarcity is improving the P-use efficiency of the crop itself through genetic means.
12: However, knowledge on the molecular mechanism involved in modulation of Pi homeostasis in oil palm upon Pi deprivation as one of the basic prerequisites for genetic manipulation is quite limited.
