0: Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.) is the second most consumed vegetable worldwide [ 1].
1: Tomatoes are an important source of lycopene, carotenes, ascorbic acid, and potassium [ 2].
2: However, this crop is affected by several diseases caused by a wide number of pathogens, resulting in reduction in fruit yield and quality, coupled with large economic losses [ 1,  3].
3: Vascular wilt caused by  Fusarium oxysporum is a serious soil disease of tomato [ 4].
4: The pathogen attacks susceptible plants by root infection and then clogs the vascular system with mycelia or spores causing vascular and leaf discoloration, often leading to the death of the plant [ 5,  6].
5: Likewise,  Aspergillus niger is one of the major pathogenic fungi in tomato fruit, such as  Helminthosporium solani and  Penicillium digitatum [ 7] One of the most prominent alternatives to conventional agriculture is the use of plant products which have been shown to control many phytopathogens previously reported [ 7,  8].
6: Essential oils are one of these plant products with great potential for controlling plant diseases, since they present antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, and insecticide activity [ 8,  9].
7: The antimicrobial activity of essential oils is directly correlated with the presence of their bioactive volatile components such as terpene compound (mono-, sesqui-, and diterpene), alcohols, acids, esters, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones, amines, ethers and phenols [ 9,  10].
8: The antifungal action of essential oils may be attributed to their capability to disrupt cell wall and cell membrane and coagulate the cytoplasm, and hence they damage cellular organelles and allow escape of macromolecules [ 11 13].
9: The lipophilic nature of EOs allow them to pass through the cell wall and damage the cytoplasmic membrane while disrupting various layers of polysaccharide, fatty acids, and phospholipids, eventually making them permeable [ 14 16].
10: Recently, antifungal mechanism of action of EOs has been reported by measuring the ergosterol content of plasma membrane of test fungi [ 17].
11: Ergosterol is a major sterol component of the fungal cell membrane responsible for maintaining the cell function and integrity.
12: Ergosterol is found almost exclusively in fungi and therefore used extensively as an indicator of fungal biomass [ 18].
13: The most common method of essential oil extraction is by hydrodistillation, although petroleum-derived solvents are also used to purify plant-derived compounds.
14: However, the latter method can be dangerous because of the use of explosive and toxic solvents.
15: An option would be the use of alternative solvents, also known as green solvents because they are not derived from petroleum products; therefore, they are not as detrimental to the environment.
16: Among those alternative solvents, fatty acid ethyl esters extracted from plants are becoming an important option because of their amphipathic property and biodegradability, and they are also nontoxic and nonirritable [ 19].
17: The aim of the present work was to evaluate the antifungal effects of essential oils and functional extracts from clove ( Eugenia caryophyllata) and pepper ( Piper nigrum L.) for reducing the severity of  Fusarium oxysporum and  Aspergillus niger wilt in tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.) using a series of  in vitro and  in vivo evaluations.
