0: Researchers conclude that this type of approach can be successfully used to generate the level of terpenoids.
1: However, modification of several groups of these compounds is quite difficult because the terpenoids reservoir precursor may not be sufficient for large production of the desired compound [ 9,  10].
2: Behrendorff examined the culture media to identify the genes and the production of limonene by using  Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and use this information to develop a media in limonene biosynthesis process [ 10].
3: Terpenoid biosynthesis reaction produces a complex chemical composition of essential oil, both seen from the type of functional group and a carbon skeleton, so almost all kinds of isomer can be found in every type of essential oil.
4: Monoterpenes is the main component of essential oil, whether it is in the form of monoterpenes with open or cyclic carbonic chain.
5: Most of these monoterpenes just have a little difference in the molecular mass and often found as the same isomers.
6: The presence of terpene isomers that have the same structure, physical properties, boiling point, and polarity pushed researchers to develop a method to improve the performance capabilities of GC tool for a quick analysis [ 11].
7: Citronellal, geraniol and nerol are the functional isomers of monoterpenoid, while citral is the lemonal from a mixture of terpenoid isomers that is known as the double bond isomers.
8: Citronellal is responsible for the distinctive aroma of lemon, while the geraniol and nerol is the main monoterpenoid alcohol component of rose oil and, palmarosa oil.
9: Isomer is known as geranial or citral A, while the Z-isomer is known as neral or citral B [ 12].
10: Z and E configuration difference is caused by the small differences in polarity that affect the strength of interaction between molecules.
11: A number of essential oil components are enantiomers to each other and these compounds only differ in their interaction with polarized light.
12: Enantiomers have identical physical properties, such as boiling point, melting point and spectroscopic spectrum, but it may have different aroma and different taste that can affect the oil quality and also its bioactivity.
13: Results from the enantiomers composition analysis on linalool to 42 types of essential oils by using FSC chiral column with a modified -Cyclodextrine (Lipodex E) showed that there are more (-) linalool than (+) limonene, but both are an active antimicrobial, antifungal and antimalarial [ 13].
14: The purpose of this study is to examine the distribution of major and minor components on each kaffir lime oil fraction by using fractional distillation, that is performed under reduced pressure and adjusted reflux ratio.
