0: Our aims were to determine whether the invasive earthworm  Lumbricus terrestris and leaf litter of  Alliaria petiolata might influence native plant abundance, performance and physiology.
1: We focussed on a common herbaceous plant:  Podophyllum peltatum (Berberidaceae).
2: We selected native species  Podophyllum peltatum because it is common in the northeastern USA and co-occurs with the two invaders  Lumbricus terrestris and  Alliaria petiolata.
3: In addition,  Podophyllum peltatum associates with AMF ( Soudzilovskaia   et al.
4: 2020 ), making it a potential candidate for indirect effects ( Fig.
5: 1).
6: First, we utilized a large-scale observational dataset to determine if native  Podophyllum peltatum abundance correlates with invader abundance in the field.
7: Because nutrient availability in the soil influences plant physiology, we explored whether soil nutrients and invaders might interact to influence  Podophyllum peltatum abundance.
8: Second, we conducted a factorial experiment to determine effects of these two invaders on  Podophyllum peltatum growth and physiology.
9: We predicted that  Lumbricus terrestris might increase the exposure of  Podophyllum peltatum to allelochemicals produced by  Alliaria petiolata, resulting in greater suppression of native plant biomass in the presence of both invaders (super-additive effect).
10: If the interaction between the invasive plant and earthworm is mediated by allelochemicals in the soil, we predict the interaction will be stronger in the absence of activated carbon, which binds allelochemicals ( Fig.
11: 1, arrow 5).
12: An interaction only in the presence of activated carbon would be more consistent with nutrient-mediated effects ( Fig.
13: 1, arrow 4).
14: Alternatively,  Lumbricus terrestris might enhance nutrient availability for  Podophyllum peltatum, leading to greater plant resistance to allelochemicals produced by  Alliaria petiolata (sub-additive effect).
15: If this is the case, we predict that  Lumbricus terrestris might enhance plant access to soil nitrogen, increasing the ability of the native plant to fix carbon (greater Ci and greater Amax in the presence of  Lumbricus terrestris).
