0: According to the findings of Nazarenko et al.
1: (1983), the genus Rosa, to which the oil-bearing species belongs, originates from the ancient evergreen lianas of the Sundarbans in India, called the pharmacy of the world as more than a quarter of the drugs known today in medicine are based on plants from these forests [ 5].
2: At present, about 1000 genotypes of roses are known; they are classified and grouped based on botanical characteristics: hybrid teas, grand floras, polyanthus, floribundas, miniatures, climbing, shrub, but only a few of them exhibit the marked fragrance which is preferred by perfumers [ 6, 7].
3: Rosa damascena Mill.
4: forma  trigintipetala Dieck,  Rosa alba L.  Rosa damascena Mill.
5: var.
6: alba,  Rosa gallica L.  Rosa centifolia,  Rosa chinensis, and  Rosa rugosa are grown worldwide predominantly as a raw material for the perfume and cosmetics industry [ 1, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13].
7: Species affiliation is a determining factor of the quality of commercial products: essential oils, hydrolates, and the concrete and absolute.
8: Essential oils and hydrolates are products of distillation, the concrete is an extract with a non-polar solvent, and the absolute is a subsequent product which is formed after the extraction of concrete with ethanol [ 12].
9: Among the world leaders in rose production are countries such as Turkey, China, countries of the former Soviet Union, Egypt, Morocco, and Bulgaria [ 13, 14, 15].
10: In Bulgaria, the cultivation and processing of roses is a tradition and the livelihood of a large part of the population and it is very important for the countrys agricultural economy, and  R. damascena Mill.,  R. alba L.,  R. gallica L., and  R. centifolia L. are grown predominantly [ 15, 16].
11: The use of rose essential oils, aqueous and alcoholic extracts of rose petals, flowers, and heads, not only as fragrances or for aromatherapy, but also for the treatment and prevention of various diseases and disorders is very popular in folk medicine.
12: Thus, the search for new biological activities of plant extracts is in many cases based on data from recipes from folk healers.
13: On a scientific basis, the empirical knowledge from folk medicine is an important aspect of more and more in vitro and in vivo studies, including preclinical and clinical trials.
14: These trials explore and explain the therapeutic efficacy of rose products and their ingredients, including: antidepressant effects, psychological relaxation, improvement of sexual dysfunction, antioxidant, antimicrobial, antifungal, probiotic and antipyretic effects, smooth muscle relaxation, lipid-lowering content, antiulcerogenic effects, etc.
15: [ 2, 8, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22].
16: Rose oils are recommended not only for inhalation and topical application (in aromatherapy and dermatology) but also for oral administration at physiologically applicable doses.
17: A number of studies have shown the anticancer activity of rose oils and their potential to be used as adjuncts in adjuvant therapy of tumors [ 23, 24].
18: Rose oil is also known for its anti-HIV, antibacterial, and antioxidant properties [ 3, 6, 25, 26, 27].
19: In this review, we are considering  R. damascena Mill.,  R. alba L.,  R. centifolia L., and  R. gallica L. as raw materials important for producing commercial aromatic products, analyzing and comparing the main biological activities of their essential oils, hydrolates, and extracts as natural healers.
20: For this purpose, information from the databases PubMed, Science Direct, and Google Scholar was used.
