0: To asses seed viability at the different aging times, the tetrazolium (triphenyl tetrazolium chloride) test was used [ 15,  52,  59].
1: Seeds were delicately pierced under a binocular magnifying glass to ensure tetrazolium penetration.
2: No staining was observed in non-pierced seeds.
3: Five replications per population, including fifty seeds per replication were disposed in 2 ml capacity eppendorfs with 0.5 ml of 0.1% tetrazolium (Sigma-Aldrich, Steinheim, Germany) and was incubated for 48 h at 40 C before viability assessment (Fig.
4: 1).
5: Tetrazolium incubation conditions were chosen following the recommendations from standard procedures [ 15,  52,  59] that suggest higher temperatures (within the defined accuracy range 2040 C) to speed up the staining process.
6: Tetrazolium staining time was evaluated within the interval described for some species from 2 to 48 h [ 52,  59] and staining time inferior to 48 h revealed incomplete stained embryos.
7: After two days, tetrazolium was withdrawn using a 1 ml pipette and 0.5 ml of distilled water was added to each eppendorf to facilitate further seeds displacement.
8: Using a Pasteur pipette, seeds were spread in a petri dish under a binocular magnifying glass and seed viability was assessed using tweezers.
9: A little squeeze was enough to force the embryo to escape the seed coat and determine its vigor.
10: Six different categories were used to classify embryo status: viable (totally stained), weakly (pale stained), patchy (partially stained), patchy-weakly (partially pale stained), death (white embryo), and aborted (no embryo found) (Fig.
11: 1).
12: The sum of weakly, patchy and patchy-weakly seeds constitutes low vigor seeds without survival probabilities (dying).
13: To speed and facilitate data collection, three smart phone free apps were used for voice recording during embryo viability classification (Voice recorder from Splend Apps), afterwards fast reproduction (Music Speed Changer from Single Minded Productions, LLC), and class counting (Thing counter from Karuma).
