0: Nowadays, the trend of organic products and natural consumers is growing in agricultural product marketing in the world.
1: This may therefore be an option for people to select natural products more than in the past [ 1].
2: Its effects turn the niche market to the mass market, and one of the famous natural products is essential oils.
3: In 2018, the global essential oils market demand was reported as 226.9 kilotons, and the market forecast is that it is likely to increase steadily [ 2].
4: Essential oil products are extracted from several parts of a plant, such as flowers, leaves, roots, and fruits, which contain different chemical-like hydrocarbons, alcohol, aldehydes, esters, ethers, ketones, oxides phenols, and terpenes.
5: Different essential oils have different effects on the human nervous system such as the relaxing effect of lavender oil, the vigilance effect of jasmine oil and rosemary oil, and the attention effect of rose oil and orchid oil on the brain and cognitive functions [ 3, 4, 5].
6: Moreover, the analysis of EEG revealed that lavender oil increased the power of theta and alpha wave [ 6], and rosemary essential oil can also decrease alpha1 and alpha2 waves and increase beta waves [ 7].
7: The effect of essential oil begins during inhalation of the essential oil molecules through the nostril and attachment to odorant receptors, activating G protein-coupled receptor.
8: It will then activate synaptic transmission to the central nervous system [ 8].
9: The signal input finally ascends to several brain regions that are responsible for olfactory perception, autonomic homeostasis, and other higher brain functions [ 9].
10: There are many recording or imaging methods measuring the effect of stimuli on brain.
11: Electroencephalography (EEG) is one of the most popular methods for observing brain oscillations due to its cost efficiency.
12: Brain waves are classified by frequencies ranging from 0.05 to 500 Hz such as delta wave (04 Hz), theta wave (48 Hz), alpha wave (813 Hz), beta wave(1330 Hz), and gamma (above 30 Hz) [ 10].
13: In this study, we focused on tangerine  (Citrus tangerina) peel essential oil.
14: According to the reports of the office of agricultural economics of Thailand in 2016, tangerine is Thailands most important crop with high productivity of about 146,526 tons.
15: Tangerine peel that is rich in essential oil is usually treated as waste or by-product.
16: The previous study showed that tangerine peel extract has significant antioxidant activity, which can possibly be applied to food and medicine [ 11].
17: The components of tangerine essential oil consist of limonene, -terpinene, paracymene, -myrcene, -pinene, -pinene, and others.
18: The content of each component may vary by geographic location.
19: Limonene is major component of tangerine essential oil.
20: Many studies revealed that limonene has effects on the human brain and body responses including an increase of systolic blood pressure, alertness level and sleeplessness [ 12, 13].
21: However, there is no evidence to support tangerine oils effects and an effective dose with designed brain waves and responses.
22: Therefore, this study continued investigating an implemented illustration of obtained knowledge.
23: Sleep latency was then studied to further confirm the effect of the selected essential oil dilution.
