0: Throughout history, mankind has been accompanied by infectious diseases that have, in one way or another, raised the question of its survival.
1: This was the case with the Spanish influenza (H 1N 1 virus) at the beginning of the last century, which resulted in the death of 5% of the worlds population.
2: Almost all the time, mutations in strains of influenza A viruses lead to the emergence of infectious diseases with new symptoms and consequences.
3: Avian flu, swine flu and other zoonotic influenza virus infections in humans lead to diseases ranging from mild upper respiratory tract infections to severe pneumonia, acute respiratory failure syndrome and death [ 1].
4: Each of them is initially regarded as a pandemic, but as soon as a treatment medication and a vaccine are developed, it is considered a regular seasonal flu.
5: The coronavirus that led to the COVID-19 pandemic is similar to the pathogen SARS-CoV (viral respiratory disease of zoonotic origin) that caused the epidemic of 2003.
6: A drug for atypical pneumonia that has passed clinical trials is yet to be developed.
7: In 2020, humanity is being forced to return to the unfinished solution of the problem, whose initial conditions will be amended with new criteria.
8: This SARS-CoV-2 virus has affected many people, not only in China but spreading to almost all countries and territories in a short time [ 2, 3].
9: Many countries (China, the United States, Germany, Great Britain, Russia, etc.)
10: are intensively working on creating a vaccine, but even in this case, time is needed.
11: The population only needs to wait for the work to be completed.
12: However, every new day brings thousands of infected people [ 4], and some of them are not going to make it.
13: Until there is a vaccine, all countries issue the same recommendations as follows: compliance with sanitary and hygienic standards; limited contacts up to complete self-isolation; strengthening of bodys defense systems that will both protect and lead to recovery in the event of infection [ 5, 6].
