0: In the last 20 years, many studies have attempted to accurately detect the spatial extent of invasive alien plant species (IAPS) to map their spread over time or model their potential invasion area.
1: They have used a variety of environmental, bioclimatic, and/or earth observation data, and applying classification or regression methods.
2: More recently, machine learning algorithms (MLAs) have gained high popularity in ecology and earth science because of their ability to model highly dimensional and nonlinear data with complex interactions and deal with data gaps (Thessen,  2016).
3: Good performances of MLAs have been obtained in several fields, including remote sensing classifications (Mountrakis, Im, & Ogole,  2011) and species distribution modeling (Cutler et al.,  2007; Elith & Leathwick,  2009).
4: However, for quantifying the impact of IAPS and developing spatially explicit management strategies, accurate information is crucial not only on the current or projected distribution of IAPS but also on their cover across the invaded range (Le Maitre, Gush, & Dzikiti,  2015; Shackleton, Le Maitre, van Wilgen, & Richardson,  2015a; Shackleton, Le Maitre, van Wilgen, & Richardson,  2015b).
5: A few studies attempted to estimate fractional IAPS cover using remotely sensed data either applying spectral unmixing techniques (Frazier & Wang,  2011; Vila et al.,  2011) or using very highresolution remotely sensed data, mostly in combination with machine learning classifiers (Cho, Malahlela, & Ramoelo,  2015; Masocha & Skidmore,  2011).
6: The use of coarser resolution remote sensing resulted in accurate binary maps of presence and absence of IAPS (Chen, Yi, Qin, & Wang,  2017; Wakie, Evangelista, Jarnevich, & Laituri,  2014).
7: Only recently, more promising mapping of IAPS at finer fractions of cover was obtained using a combination of medium or highresolution satellite data and powerful machine learning classification algorithms (Ng et al.,  2016; Rembold, Leonardi, Ng, Gadain, & Meroni,  2015).
8: Such finescaled and accurate quantification of the local fractional cover of IAPS allows understanding their impacts through coverimpact curve analysis.
9: Furthermore, it allows to identify areas with early stages of invasion where the control of satellite populations maybe halted or at least slow down further spread of IAPS (Vila et al.,  2011).
