0: Oxidative stress and autoxidation are known to be harmful to the human body.
1: The presence of these conditions can result from an imbalance between free radicals and antioxidants present in the body, which can ultimately be damaging to the human bodys cells, proteins and DNA.
2: This set of circumstances can lead to a range of health problems such as aging, diabetes and cancer, as well as certain cardiovascular and neurogenerative diseases [ 1, 2, 3].
3: To treat these disease, synthetic compounds can be used to help prevent any effects resulting from the specific mechanisms that may occur.
4: In spite of their advantages, it has been recently reported that an overdose of chemical compounds might lead to a range of detrimental side effects and health issues including the formation of carcinogenic tissues or tumors [ 4].
5: Consequently, natural products have been recognized for their potential in the development of medicinal treatment to address many of these illnesses.
6: In this way, the active molecules derived from plants and other natural resources have been isolated and enhanced with the intention of reducing the oxidation processes that occur in these plant substances and to development alternative and beneficial forms of treatment.
7: The Clauseneae tribe belongs to the Rutaceae family, which is generally recognized as a citrus family of flowering plants (Angiosperms).
8: The tribe Clauseneae is comprised of five genera, namely  Micromelum,  Marillia,  Glycosmis,  Murraya and  Clausena [ 5].
9: The latter genus has been identified as a potent natural resource.
10: It has been used in a variety of applications and is considered a traditional food source.
11: It is now being considered for use in the field of pharmacology.
12: Furthermore, there is a great need to discover and develop novel bioactive compounds that can be utilized for a range of medicinal purposes including for anticancer, antibacterial, antifungal and anti-malarial treatments [ 6, 7, 8].
13: Clausena is a relatively small genus of strongly scented evergreen trees with odd-pinnate leaves.
14: It is comprised of around 30 species that are distributed throughout tropical Asia, South Asia and South East Asia [ 6, 9] and are primarily found in India.
15: In Thailand, the genus  Clausena is considered an economically important group of plants with a range of potential health benefits.
16: Specifically,  C. excavata and  C. harmandiana have been identified as plants within this genus that show potential in the development of natural health treatments [ 10, 11].
17: Concerning the tribe Clauseneae, several species in this tribe have been acknowledged as sources of edible fruits, essential oils, herbal medicines, spices ( Murraya exotica and  M. kwangsiensis) and various horticultural items ( Clausena anisum-olens,  C. lansium and  Glycosmis parviflora).
18: Several species have also been recognized as potential sources of lumber and pharmaceutical compounds [ 12].
19: Additionally,  Murraya koenigii, a popular and commonly known species, is scattered throughout different regions of the globe [ 13].
20: Recently, Balakrishnan et al.
21: [ 14] speculated that  M. koenigii was a beneficial source of various bioactive compounds such as alkaloids, polyphenols, terpenoids and flavonoids.
22: Additionally,  M. koenigii was also found to be capable of expressing a range of anticarcinogenic, proapoptotic, antiangiogenic, antimetastatic, immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties.
23: These properties can be further developed as antiemetic and antidiarrheal agents.
24: They could then potentially be used to treat diseases like dysentery as a febrifuge, blood purifier, tonic and stomachic.
25: Furthermore,  M. koenigii is already being used as a flavoring agent in curries and chutneys.
26: In some cultures,  M. koenigii is being utilized in traditional systems of medicine [ 15].
