0: In recent years, foremost issues that have been interesting to all the world countries are food safety, food security and nutrition [ 1].
1: The essential requirement, probably the most important one, of individuals is nutrition to live healthy and strong in terms of physically, mentally and emotionally, to improve themselves economically and socially, for prospering and to continue themselves existence as happy, peaceful and secure [ 2].
2: It is asserted that an adult person should take 1 g of protein per kg of body weight per day in order to keep healthy and balanced diet and 4250% of this amount should consist of animal originated proteins [ 3].
3: Chicken meat is one of the most important resources of animal protein that should be consumed for physical and mental development, healthy and balanced diet.
4: It is an important and strategic nutrient resource since it has low cholesterol and fat ratio compared to red meat and it has healthful properties like easy digestion and being a good source of protein in terms of nutritional value as well as having low cost compared to other protein sources [ 4].
5: However, too many animals in poultry-house during broiler breeding causes animals to be more vulnerable and less resistant and thus more susceptible to sudden state changes.
6: Antibiotics, added into rations as feed additive in order to reduce the risk of diseases and achieve rapid live weight gain, played a crucial role until the last few years [ 5].
7: However, long-term use of these antibiotics results in the development of resistant strains against antibiotics, thus use of many antibiotics has been prohibited in the many parts of world, especially in the European Union countries since 2006 [ 6].
8: Therefore, researchers are in search of a natural and safe growth stimulant that can be an alternative product to maintain developments provided by the use of antibiotics as a growth factor and to overcome the shortcomings that may arise in the absence of antibiotics [ 7].
9: For this purpose, the aromatic plants, etheric oils obtained from these plants and their bioactive secondary metabolites are used in medicine, cosmetics and food fields due to their various properties including antibacterial, antioxidant, antiviral, antifungal and digestive stimulatory effect.
10: They are gaining currency to be used as an animal nutrition as well [ 5].
11: In plant tissues, high molecular compounds like carbohydrate, lipid, protein, cellulose, lignin and pectin are quite abundant and these substances, called primary (main) metabolites, are necessary for physiological development of plants due to their primary role in cell metabolism [ 8].
12: On the other hand, secondary metabolites are produced from primary metabolites via biosynthesis and generally have role in pollination, complying with environmental conditions, chemical defense against microorganisms, insects and other predators and competition with other plants.
13: They are small molecules, whose quantities are sometimes too low to be measured such as alkaloids, volatile oils, glycosides, steroids, flavonoids, tannins, phenols, coloring agent and resins [ 9,  10].
14: The bioactive substances synthesized in medicinal and aromatic plants increase or decrease depending on the part of plant which is used as a drug, the physiological period of plant and the time when plant drug are gathered.
15: This change results in difficulty in finding the effective dosage that makes harder use of plant itself or its essential oils directly as feed additive.
16: Therefore, it is preferred to use active substances in the composition of the essential oil isolated from aromatic plants as feed additives [ 11].
17: In the experiment, as proportion of carvacrol found in thyme ( Origanum vulgare) essential oil, cinnamaldehyde found in cinnamon ( Cinnamomum zeylanicum) essential oils, capsaicin bioactive substances found in chili paprika ( Capsicum annuum) can vary in etheric oils due to reasons mentioned above, synthetic 99% carvactol, 98% cinnamaldehyde, 99% capsicum oleoresin (includes 6.6% capsaicin), which are identical to natural secondary metabolites were used.
18: Because carvacrol and cinnamaldehyde are both digestive stimulants and can increase appetite as well as being antifunfgal [ 11,  12], while capsicum oleoresin is endocrine and immune stimulant [ 13,  14], and also antioxidant [ 15], lastly the mixture group can act synergistically with various combination of active substances, they were preferred [ 16].
19: On the other hand, in studies conducted with different plant extracts and etheric oils, it was found that sensory (tenderness, taste) and physical (toughness, firmness) properties of broiler meat were not affected in general [ 17], and some of the chemical properties (decreased MDA, increased PUFA) were improved [ 18].
20: Indeed, The purpose of this study was to explore the effects of main active ingredients and homogeneous mixtures of carvacrol found in the essential oil of thyme ( Origanum vulgare), cinnamaldehyde found in the essential oil of cinnamon ( Cinnamomum zeylanicum) and capsicum oleoresin found in the extracts of hot red pepper ( Capsicum annuum) on mixed feed at a rate of 150 mg / kg on the sensory, physical and chemical properties of broilers breast meat (including pectoralis major and pectoralis minor) and leg meat (including thigh and drumstick).
