0: Piper carpunya Ruiz & Pav.
1: (syn  Piper lenticellosum C.D.C.)
2: is an aromatic shrub native to Ecuador and Peru.
3: It is widely distributed between 02000 m a.s.l.
4: in the Andean and Amazon region [ 4], and it is even found in the Ecuadorian coastal region [ 6].
5: The plant is popularly known as Guaviduca, and the traditional preparations of the fresh or dried leaves in infusions or decoctions are used in folk medicine for their anti-inflammatory, antiulcer, antidiarrheal, and antiparasitic effects and wound healing properties (dermatological activity) [ 7, 8].
6: The anti-inflammatory activity has been confirmed in mice models, such as in carrageenan-induced paw edema [ 9, 10].
7: This plant has been shown to protect against gastric ulcers induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) in rats [ 11].
8: In 2010, Quilez et al.
9: concluded that the chemical compounds identified in  P. carpunya are involved in the antisecretory, anti-inflammatory, and anti- Helicobacter pylori activities [ 12].
10: Previous phytochemical studies of  Piper carpunya have reported the essential oil composition of the leaves and spikes [ 7, 13].
11: These studies report compounds that may be harmful to human health.
12: However, the presence of secondary metabolites in plant species changes due to variations in the ecological conditions, and genetic and environmental factors, the most important of these being temperature, moisture, soil, harvest period, geographical position, seasonal variations, and vegetative cycle [ 14].
13: The intrinsic and extrinsic factors are mainly related to the region where the species grow and the time of year in which the species are collected.
14: The results obtained in previous studies support the use of  P. carpunya in traditional medicine.
15: However, there are no reports concerning the chemical compounds present in the guaviduca beverage prepared with the leaves of this species.
16: This led us to investigate the chemical composition and enantiomeric distribution of the essential oil extracted from the  P. carpunya species collected in winter and summer and also, the chemical composition from the volatile compounds present in this Ecuadorian beverage.
17: Moreover, the antimicrobial, antioxidant, and anticholinesterase effects were assed for the volatile secondary metabolites present in  Piper carpunya leaves.
