0: The seeds of  B. napus are an excellent reservoir of triacylglycerol (TAG), the primary storage form of oil that is essential for the seedling growth followed by seedling germination [ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18].
1: Recent studies have proposed that the oil content of the seeds could be enhanced by varying the expression levels of individual or a combination of genes encoding transcription factors/enzymes that are associated with TAG metabolism [ 14, 19].
2: To this end, transcriptome studies have been extensively carried out in order to understand the underlying molecular mechanism regulating the seed oil content of  B. napus [ 20, 21, 22, 23].
3: For this purpose, Xiao et al.
4: [ 24] identified candidate genes that are involved in regulating the oil content by combining genome-wide association studies and transcriptome analysis in  B. napus.
5: They performed a comparison study between two extremely high-oil-content lines and one extremely low-oil-content line and identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the lines, contributing to seed oil content.
6: On the other hand, Qu et al.
7: [ 25] analysed the metabolic profiles of genes that are involved in the flavanoid synthesis in both yellow- and black-seeded rapeseed accessions at the early, middle, and late stages of seed development, and compared the transcriptional differences between them by RNA-sequencing.
8: Moreover, Niu et al.
9: [ 26] performed pairwise comparisons and also identified DEGs regulating seed size, colour, and oil content in  Brassica rapa, by taking the seven developmental stages of the seeds into account.
10: In this regard, a recent study conducted by Lu et al.
11: [ 27] integrated genome-wide association studies and transcriptome analyses, and mainly focused on the identification of DEGs that are related to environmental adaptation, oil content, seed quality, and ecotype improvement for two cultivars of  B. napus: a double-low accession with high-oil-content and a double-high accession with low-oil-content.
12: Several of the aforementioned studies specifically focused on the Gene Ontology (GO) categories and pathway enrichment anaylses based on the identified DEG sets, while primarily investigating the biological functions of the DEGs regarding seed oil content.
