0: Trypanosomiases are insect-borne parasitic diseases of humans and animals caused by flagellate protozoans of the genus  Trypanosoma.
1: Occurring mainly in Latin America and Africa, where they are considered endemic, and they are of great importance to human health [ 1, 2].
2: According to Britannica Academic [ 3], the life cycle of trypanosomes includes one stage in the blood or tissue of a vertebrate host and another stage in an invertebrate vector.
3: Furthermore, approximately 20  Trypanosoma species are known, but only two species cause disease in humans,  Trypanosoma cruzi and  Trypanosoma brucei.
4: T. cruzi is the cause of American trypanosomiasis, also called Chagas disease, which is prevalent throughout the Americas.
5: It is spread by Triatominae insects, commonly called kissing bugs.
6: In the bloodstream, the parasite multiplies and can reach the heart, liver and spleen, where it can cause extensive damage.
7: T. brucei is responsible for African trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness, most commonly found in equatorial Africa.
8: Human African trypanosomiasis takes two forms depending on the parasite involved, which are both transmitted by tsetse flies ( Glossina spp.).
9: Sleeping sickness in eastern and southern sub-Saharan Africa is an acute form caused by the subspecies  T. brucei rhodesiense.
10: Trypanosomiasis in the central and western regions of Africa is a slow-progressing form caused by  T. brucei gambiense.
11: Both trypanosomes invade the brain, causing mental deterioration, coma and death if left untreated [ 4, 5].
12: There is also Surra, which is a trypanosomiasis caused by  T. evansi, that affects wild and domestic animals mainly in Africa, Asia and South America, causing serious economic losses due to mortality and morbidity [ 6].
13: However, despite being a disease that predominantly affects animals, cases of surra have been reported in humans in the Asian region, where the main symptoms observed were fever and drowsiness, without invasion of the parasite in the central nervous system [ 7].
14: Figure 1 illustrates the worldwide distribution of the main species causing human trypanosomiasis.
