0: One pair of invasive-native mycorrhizal herbaceous plant species (family Asteraceae) was used in this study.
1: We selected  Echinops sphaerocephalus L., a common invader of semi-natural plant communities in central Europe (Czechia), and  Inula conyzae, an indigenous herb which occurs abundantly in invaded plant communities.
2: Prior to planting native and invasive species, both M+ and M treatments were preplanted with  Festuca pratensis Huds.
3: F. pratensis served as a nurse plant to establish CMNs in M+ pots that were not associated with either the invasive or native plant species.
4: All seeds were field collected.
5: To account for possible genotypic differences among individuals, we selected seeds from at least 10 individuals per plant species of few plant populations, mixed the seeds and randomly distributed among different treatments.
6: Seedlings were pre-germinated for two weeks in Petri dishes on wet filter paper at room temperature.
7: Pots were directly sown by seeds of  F. pratensis in the middle of January.
8: After 48 days, half of the pots were once mechanically disturbed by inserting a long metallic spatula to its full depth into the central part of the pot (from one empty corner to the other avoiding nurse plants).
9: Microscopic assessment of soil samples (following 68 of 6M+ and 2M pots 48 days post disturbance conferred hyphal length density in the potting substrate comparable to similar experiment 69.
10: Target seedlings were transplanted into pots (two individuals per poteither two  I. conyzae, or one  I. conyzae paired with one  E. sphaerocephalus) immediately after soil disturbance.
11: Target plants ( E. sphaerocephalus and  I. conyzae) were planted into the two empty corners of each pot (i.e.
12: corners not occupied by  F. pratensis) Fig.
13: 1.
14: Target plants in M+ treatments were planted into non-disturbed soil with intact CMNs, or into initially disturbed soil, where CMNs needed to reestablish from spores and hyphal fragments.
15: Thirty-six days following the initial disturbance and planting of target plants, shoots of all nurse plants were cut under the hypocotylroot interface and dried for 3 days at 65 C and weighted.
