0: Mycotic diseases are causing significant morbidity and now seen as a serious concern to public health [ 1,  2].
1: The spread of fungal diseases is increasing by overuse of broad-spectrum antibiotics, which lessening non-pathogenic bacterial population that check the growth of fungi through competition [ 3].
2: Antifungal drugs play active roles in the treatment of some fungal infections but their misuse always made the fungal infection worsen.
3: Superficial and subcutaneous fungal infections are very dangerous if not promptly and properly treated with appropriate drugs.
4: The erroneous use of antifungal drugs has contributed to frequent resistance experience over the past decades [ 4].
5: In addition, most antifungal drugs currently available to treat fungal infections have serious drawbacks, which include low concentration of active ingredients, itching on the skin due to chemical composition, development of fungi resistance and toxic side effects [ 5].
6: Conventional formulation of creams, powder, gels to treat skin or deep seated fungal infections still have various side-effects like burning, redness and swelling on the application site [ 6].
7: Beside different side effects committed to commercially available antifungal drugs, these days, multiple drug resistance is fast rising worldwide and efficacy of single antibiotic against resistant microorganisms is abating.
8: The continuous therapeutic failure as a result of multi-drug resistance by pathogenic fungi is urgently demanding for innovative complementary approach towards production of novel, alternative and effective antimicrobial drugs.
9: Invention of antifungal drugs with different drug delivery systems like liposomes, niosomes, ethosomes, microemulsions, microsponge, nanoparticles are now embraced as treatment option for fungal infection in order to achieve clinical efficacy [ 6,  7].
10: The increasing therapeutic potentials of drug combination has been found more efficacious than single antifungal agent aimed at a single target [ 8].
