0: PSF Experiment 1: To illustrate how mycorrhizal type associated with the specific soil microbial community determines PSF strengths, we conducted a pot experiment using germinated seedlings.
1: We chose nine co-existing tree species in the first planting experiment as focal species, namely 3 AM plants ( Cinnamomum camphora,  Pterospermum lanceaefolium, and  Schima superba), two EM plants ( Castanopsis fissa and  Castanopsis chinensis), two NF plants ( Albizia lebbeck and  Ormosia glaberrima), one NM plant ( Helicia cochinchinensis), and one eucalypt (EU) plant ( E. urophylla) ( Supplementary Table 1).
2: For each focal species, we selected six adult trees and collected two soil samples from the root zones of each individual (<0.5 m from the base of the stem, 020 cm depth), and thoroughly pooled all samples for its species-specific soil.
3: To avoid cross-contamination, we cleaned the shovels and sterilized them with 70% ethanol prior to the next sampling.
4: In addition, we collected bulk soil from the field site, where those target tree species was not present within a radius of 50 m. To prepare the background soil, we mixed the bulk soil with sand (v 1:1) followed by sterilization with gamma radiation (25 kGy).
5: We then thoroughly mixed the background soil with the species-specific soil (v 9:1) to prepare seven soil inocula treatment for each species: (i) conspecific sterilized soil, (ii) conspecific living soil, (iii) mixed soil of all species with the same mycorrhizal type to focus species and (iv)-(vii) the other four types of soil, respectively, mixed with their species-specific inocula ( Supplementary Figure 2A).
6: In particular, the NM and EU type with only one species, so  H. cochinchinensis and  E. urophylla seedlings both had only six inocula treatments without the mixed inocula of (iii).
7: For each species, we filled plastic pots (13 cm in diameter, 15 cm in height) with one of 6 or 7 soil inocula in each pot.
8: Thus, seedlings of the nine focal species were treated with 61 soil inocula treatment combinations and there were 549 pots in total ( Supplementary Figure 2A), namely (7 species  7 soil inocula + 2 species  6 soil inocula)  9 replicates.
