0: Adsorptive macroporous resins are polymer adsorbents with macroporous structures but without ion exchange groups that can selectively adsorb almost any type of natural products.
1: They have been widely used either as a standalone system, or as part of a pretreatment process for removing impurities or enriching target compounds due to their advantages, which include high adsorptive capacity, relatively low cost, easy regeneration and easy scale-up.
2: The adsorptive mechanisms of adsorptive macroporous resins include electrostatic forces, hydrogen bonding, complex formation and size-sieving actions between the resins and the natural products in solution.
3: Surface area, pore diameter and polarity are the key factors affecting the capacity of the resins [ 54].
4: 20( S)-protopanaxatriol saponins (PTS) ( 81) and 20( S)-protopanaxadiol saponins (PDS) ( 82, Fig.
5: 11) are known as two major bioactive components in the root of  Panax notoginseng.
6: PTS and PDS were successfully separated with 30 and 80% (v/v) aqueous ethanol solutions from the D101 macroporous resin column, respectively.
7: The chromatography behaviors of PDS and PTS were close to reversed-phase chromatography when comparing the chromatographic profiles of macroporous resin column chromatography to the HPLC chromatogram on a Zorbax SB-C 18 column [ 55].
8: Recently, Meng et al.
9: obtained the total saponins of Panacis Japonici Rhizoma (PJRS) using D101 macroporous resin.
10: The contents of the four major saponins, chikusetsusaponins V ( 55), IV ( 56) and IVa  (57), and pseudoginsenoside RT1 ( 58) (Fig.
11: 8), in the obtained PJRS was more than 73%.
12: The PJRS served as the standard reference for quality control of Panacis Japonici Rhizoma [ 56].
13: Some researchers assumed that the principal adsorptive mechanism between macroporous resins and polyphenols was associated with the hydrogen bonding formation between the oxygen atom of the ether bond of the resin and the hydrogen atom of phenolic hydroxyl group of the phenol.
14: The hydrogen bonding interaction force was significantly affected by the pH value of the solution [ 57,  58].
