0: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous hematopoietic stem cell disease that may be cured in some patients with intensive chemotherapy and/or allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) [ 1].
1: Despite the approval of new targeted treatments, including FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) or antiapoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) protein inhibitors, up to 50% of AML patients will eventually relapse or die.
2: The major reasons that may explain why patients are not cured are the inability of the treatment to eliminate all cancerous cells and drug-related toxicity to different organs [ 2].
3: Cell death evasion mechanisms are a hallmark of tumor resistance to chemotherapy [ 1].
4: The major challenge of new anticancer therapeutic solutions is to reactivate cell death programs in cancer cells while having low toxicity to normal cells.
5: An increasing number of studies have shown the beneficial effects of different medicinal plant extracts.
6: Accumulating evidence shows that medicinal plant compounds exert damaging effects on cancer cells.
7: Bioactive molecules are capable of killing cancerous cells through various molecular mechanisms, including intrinsic or extrinsic caspase-dependent apoptosis, autophagy, and necroptosis [ 1].
8: Ptychotis verticillata (PV) is an endemic Maghrebian plant used in traditional medicine for the treatment of fever, muscle spasms, urinary infections, diabetes, and hypotension [ 3, 4].
9: The essential oil (EO) of PV contains several compounds, mostly phenolic components (48.0%) with carvacrol (44.6%) and thymol (3.4%) as the main compounds [ 5].
10: The chemical structure of carvacrol and thymol is shown in  Figure 1 using Microsoft paint software (Microsoft, Corp., Redmond, WA, USA).
11: Few works have been devoted to this plant, and they have only focused on its antimicrobial and antidiabetic effects.
12: Thus, no study has been published to show the anticancer effect of  Ptychotis verticillata (PV) essential oil (EO) or its cytotoxic effect on normal cells.
13: Recently, we have demonstrated that EO of PV and its constituents, carvacrol and thymol, have shown beneficial effects on different biological features of mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) such as stimulating proliferation and preventing cellular cytotoxicity [ 6].
