0: Plant extracts with bioactive compounds have been used as feed additives and rumen modifiers to increase the performance of ruminants [ 5, 6].
1: Specific Korean wormwood ( Artemisia montana) has been recognized in many parts of the world as a medicinal and functional food, and its EO has been extracted and characterized.
2: Kim et al.
3: [ 7] reported that EO from Korean wormwood hay contained Camphor, 1-Borneol, and Caryophyllene Oxide as the main active compounds, whereas Korean wormwood silage contained 3-Cyclohexen-1-o1, t rans-Caryophyllene, and -Selinene.
4: In an animal trial, replacing dietary rice straw with 50150 g kg 1 dry matter (DM) of wormwood hay or silage has increased feed intake, in vivo digestibility, N retention, and microbial N yield in sheep [ 8, 9].
5: Generally, there are three species of native wormwood that grow widely in South Korea, including Ganghwa, Injin, and San.
6: However, the effects and optimal application level of EO from these native wormwoods have not been studied.
7: According to previous studies [ 1, 2], the optimum level of EO application for ruminants could vary from 0.1 to 10 mg/kg, depending on their active compounds.
8: Studies on the efficacy and optimal dose of EO from the native wormwoods could lead to the development of a native feed additive for improving ruminant performance in South Korea.
9: Therefore, two in vitro study experiments were conducted.
10: Experiment 1 aimed to extract and identify EO from three native Korean wormwood species and to examine their effects on in vitro ruminal fermentation, digestibility, and fibrolytic bacterial counts following bermudagrass or soybean meal fermentation.
11: Experiment 2 aimed to investigate the optimal inclusion levels of the most promising wormwood EO from Experiment 1 for improving in vitro rumen digestibility, fermentation, and fibrolytic bacterial counts on bermudagrass or soybean meal substrates.
12: We hypothesized that the wormwood species and application levels would have varying effects on rumen microbial fermentation.
