0: Since the middle ages, essential oils have widely been used for bactericidal, virucidal, fungicidal, medicinal, and cosmetic applications, especially nowadays in pharmaceutical, sanitary, cosmetic, and agricultural and food industries.
1: Because of the mode of extraction, mostly by hydrodistillation from aromatic plants, they contain a variety of volatile molecules such as terpenes and terpenoids phenol-derived aromatic components, and aliphatic components.
2: [ 1] Apiaceae is one of the important flowering plant families that are scattered around the world.
3: This family includes 420 genera, 3100 species.
4: Ferula is one the important genera in this family which consists 133 species distributed throughout Mediterranean area and central Asia.
5: [ 234] More than 70 species of  Ferula have already been investigated chemically leading to the fact that germacranes, humulanes, carotanes, and guaianes represent the main sesquiterpene constituents of the genus.
6: [ 5678910111213] Several species of this genus have been used in folk medicine.
7: [ 6] -pinene and  -pinene are reported as a major constituent of most studied  Ferula taxa and considered as chemotype of  Ferula.
8: [ 14] Giant fennel ( Ferula communis L. characterized by two chemotypes with different biological activities.
9: One chemotype is poisonous, due to prenyl coumarins, and responsible for ferulosis, which mainly affects sheep and goats, cattle, and horses; the other chemotype is nonpoisonous and contains daucane esters.
10: The two chemotypes cannot be distinguished botanically.
11: Major volatiles in the poisonous chemotype the sesquiterpenes aristolene and farnesol while in the nonpoisonous chemotype, the main component was the sesquiterpene allohedycaryol.
12: [ 15] For rapid and unequivocal discrimination of the two chemotypes, aristolene and allohedycaryol had been used as markers of the poisonous and nonpoisonous  Ferula chemotypes, respectively.
13: [ 16]  Ferula tingitana L. (giant Tangier fennel) is a tall perennial herb.
14: It has alternate leaf arrangement and yellow, unisexual flowers which, like other Apiaceae, grow in umbels.
15: It grows in scrubland and rocky areas.
16: Its range is the Mediterranean coast[ 17] in Spain, Morocco, Lebanon, Isral, Cyprus, and Turkey.
17: [ 181920] Sesquiterpene ester, tingitanol and sesquiterpene coumarin ethers coladonin, feselol isosamarcandin angelate, and daucane esters were isolated from the root.
18: [ 212223]  F. tingitana has been considered to have abortive and menstruation-inducing properties.
19: [ 24] The species has been suggested as a possible identity for the controversial silphium a plant used as a spice and for various medical purposes in the Mediterranean region.
20: [ 25] It was said that it could be used to treat cough, sore throat, fever, indigestion, aches and pains, warts, and all kinds of maladies.
21: [ 26] However, reports neither on composition nor on the bioactivity of the essential oil of Libyan plant could not be traced in the available literature.
22: The aim of the study is to establish the chemical composition of the essential oil of flower, leaves of  F. tingitana and to throw light on antimicrobial, cytotoxic activities of Libyan plant.
23: Furthermore, compare between Libyan ferula and other varieties (Turkish and Iranian).
