0: Essential oils are secondary metabolites bio-synthesized by plants ( Pandey et al., 2017), produced as defense mechanisms to environmental responses and ecological factors.
1: Due to essential oils with low mammalian toxicity, fully biodegradable, multifunctional and environmentally safe, there is increasing interest in research concerning with the naturally occurring toxicants from plants as new alternative pesticides ( Zhang et al., 2016).
2: The larvicidal activity of numerous essential oils has been the subject of several investigations in search of novel strategies for insect control ( Peixoto et al., 2015,  Kumar et al., 2012).
3: It has been proved that essential oils from 1500 plant species have insecticidal properties and are efficacious regarding both forms of insectsadults and larvae ( Jankowska et al., 2018).
4: One of the plant species studied is  Citrus sinensis L. which is a shrub, or more precisely, a tree; from which different aromatic products can be obtained, depending on the part used It belongs to the Family: Rutacea, Genus:  Citrus.
5: ( Etebu and Nwauzoma, 2014).
6: Orange peel has been reported as an excellent substrate for various value-added products, such as essential oils, pectin, natural antioxidants, antimicrobial, ethanol, organic acids and pectotic oligosaccharides ( Mamma and Christakopoulus, 2014).
7: Orange essential oil is found mainly in oval-shaped sacks on the flavedo or orange portion of the peel and acts as a natural toxic barrier for many microorganisms and insects ( Ceron-salazar and Cardona-Alzate, 2001).
8: The essential oil obtained from orange peel ( Citrus sinensis L.) has been subjects of several researches due to its functionality as antimicrobial as has been demonstrated in several recent studies such as the work of Geraci et al., in 2016.
9: In this research for example was found as main component, d-limonene (73.997%) in orange peel ( Geraci et al., 2016); Xiao et al., in 2016, mention that compound such as alpha pinene, sabineno, limonene, -terpinolene, hexanal, octanal, decanal, y dodecanal, were typical aromatic compound, that had a covariance with a characteristic smell of sweet orange essential oil.
10: These data are founded through the characterization of active compounds by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GCMS) ( Xiao et al., 2016,  Minteguiaga et al., 2017).
11: According to the previous investigations and knowing that the terpenes are classified as ingredients bio-active with a variant mode action larvicide, regulators of growth insects, repellents and toxics ( Khare et al., 2019).
12: Considering the presence of this type of compound in the essential oils of the orange peel and the consequent use of these as a bioactive insecticide ( Carmona et al., 2014).
13: The main objective of the research was to artificially modify the chemical composition of orange oil ( Citrus sinensis L.) using electrical pulses ( Gitonga et al., 2018,  Liu et al., 2014).
14: By analysis gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry, it was found that the electrical treatment modified the composition of the different samples of treated oils.
15: Additionally, the larvicidal activity of the oils on  Drosophila melanogaster larvae was evaluated in order to establish the relationship between chemical composition and lethality.
