0: The essential oil of  S. rosmarinus was demonstrated to possess antibacterial, antioxidant, antifungal, and anti-inflammatory properties [ 20].
1: Additionally, it is traditionally recognized to alleviate muscle pain and to improve cognitive diseases including Alzheimer disease (AD) [ 21].
2: AD is a neurodegenerative disease associated with loss of cholinergic neurons in parts of the brain and deposition of -amyloid in the form of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques [ 22, 23].
3: At present, there is no a therapeutic approach that can delay the AD progression, but available treatment has provided symptomatic benefits.
4: Nowadays, two main classes of drugs are available for AD patients: Cholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil, galantamine, and rivastigmine, and the glutamate antagonist memantine [ 24].
5: Two cholinesterases, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), participate in cholinergic neurotransmission by hydrolysing acetylcholine (Ach) in the central and peripheral nervous system.
6: AChE is responsible for the degradation of Ach in the synaptic cleft of cholinergic synapses and neuromuscular junctions into choline and acetate.
7: It has a crucial role in regulating many functions such as learning, memory, cerebral blood flow control, and cortical organization of movement.
8: On the other hand, BChE has a higher activity in liver, heart, intestine, kidney, and lung.
9: The enzymes share 65% amino acids sequence homology and show similar molecular forms and active sites.
10: Oxidative stress has been identified as a contributing factor in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases.
11: The abnormal cellular metabolism caused by the excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) could affect both production and accumulation of -amyloid that could exacerbate cellular dysfunction and ROS production, thus contributing to a vicious cycle [ 25].
12: Thus, restoring the level of acetylcholine and the use of natural antioxidants may be proposed in the treatment and management of AD [ 26, 27].
