0: Seeds of  P. pratensis, P. pratense, T. pratense, and  Hypericum perforatum L. were bought in JSC Agrofirma Seklos (Lithuania).
1: Seeds of  T. pulegioides were collected at the Field Experimental Station of the Nature Research Centre, Vilnius, Lithuania.
2: The effect of essential oils of  T. pulegioides -TA chemotype and analytical standard -TA on germination and growth of radicles of  P. pratensis, P. pratense, T. pratense H. perforatum, and  T. pulegioides were investigated through air and water.
3: The investigation through air was carried out as following: the filter paper was moistened with 15 mL of distilled water and placed in Petri dish; the small aluminum containers with 3 L pure essential oil or pure analytical standard was placed in center of Petri dish (on the moistened filter paper), thus only aerial contact was allowed between allelochemicals and seeds.
4: In parallel with these experiments were performed controls with distillated water only.
5: The investigation through water was carried out as following: the filter paper was moistened with 3 L essential oil or analytical standard dissolved in 1% of Tween 20 and placed in Petri dish.
6: 100 seeds were overspread gradually in each Petri dish; the borders of Petri dishes were closed with adhesive tape, to preserve the volatile compounds inside, and stored at room temperature.
7: In parallel with these experiments were performed controls with distillated water only.
8: Every treatment was carried out three times.
9: Every experiment day the germinated seeds were calculated.
10: The experiment was finished when the seeds ceased to germinate.
11: The total number of germination seeds was calculated after experiment and recalculated to the final germination percentage (GP).
12: Mean daily germination (MDG) index of daily germination was calculated from the following equation MDG = GP/d, where GPthe final germination percentage, ddays to the maximum of final germination.
13: Germination index (GI) was calculated as follows: GI =  G t/T t, where G tthe number of seeds germinated of day t, T t the number of days at the beginning of the experiment.
14: After experiment radicles were measured in each Petri dish (30 radicles per treatment) to establish the radicles length (RL).
