0: The development of greener nano-constructs with noteworthy biological activity is of supreme interest, as a robust choice to minimize the extensive use of synthetic drugs.
1: Essential oils (EOs) and their constituents offer medicinal potentialities because of their extensive biological activity, including the inhibition of fungi species.
2: However, their application as natural antifungal agents are limited due to their volatility, low stability, and restricted administration routes.
3: Nanotechnology is receiving particular attention to overcome the drawbacks of EOs such as volatility, degradation, and high sensitivity to environmental/external factors.
4: For the aforementioned reasons, nanoencapsulation of bioactive compounds, for instance, EOs, facilitates protection and controlled-release attributes.
5: Nanoliposomes are bilayer vesicles, at nanoscale, composed of phospholipids, and can encapsulate hydrophilic and hydrophobic compounds.
6: Considering the above critiques, herein, we report the in-house fabrication and nano-size characterization of bioactive oregano essential oil (  Origanum vulgare L.) (OEO) molecules loaded with small unilamellar vesicles (SUV) nanoliposomes.
7: The study was focused on three main points: (1) multi-compositional fabrication nanoliposomes using a thin film hydrationsonication method; (2) nano-size characterization using various analytical and imaging techniques; and (3) antifungal efficacy of as-developed OEO nanoliposomes against   Trichophyton rubrum (  T. rubrum) by performing the mycelial growth inhibition test (MGI).
8: The mean size of the nanoliposomes was around 77.46  0.66 nm and 110.4  0.98 nm, polydispersity index (PdI) of 0.413  0.015, zeta potential values up to 36.94  0.36 mV were obtained by dynamic light scattering (DLS).
9: and spherical morphology was confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
10: The presence of OEO into nanoliposomes was displayed by attenuated total reflection Fourier-transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy.
11: Entrapment efficiency values of 79.55  6.9% were achieved for OEO nanoliposomes.
12: In vitro antifungal activity of nanoliposomes tested against   T. rubrum strains revealed that OEO nanoliposomes exhibited the highest MGI, 81.66  0.86%, at a concentration of 1.5 L/mL compared to the rest of the formulations.
13: In summary, this work showed that bioactive OEO molecules with loaded nanoliposomes could be used as natural antifungal agents for therapeutical purposes against   T. rubrum.
