0: R. crenulata is one of the important species in the genus of  Rhodiola, and its rhizome has been successfully recorded by the Chinese Pharmacopoeia [ 11, 12].
1: In China,  R. crenulata is considered as the only official species, and it has been widely recognized as the high-quality raw material for making various products, including medicine, health-preserving food and cosmetics [ 13, 14].
2: Years of pharmacological studies have revealed that, the extracts of  R. crenulata can improve memory, adjust immune, anti-hypoxia, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, anti-tumor, resist fatigue, and have the function of dual-directional regulation in accommodating the central nervous system and endocrine system [ 15, 16, 17, 18, 19].
3: To date, over 100 compounds, such as salidroside, arbutin, gallic acid, ethyl gallate, tyrolsol, kaempferol, herbacetin, rhodiolinin and rosavin, have been successfully separated and characterized from this plant [ 20, 21, 22, 23, 24].
4: These chemical constituents can be generally grouped into the categories of organic acids, phenyethanoids, phenols, polyphenols, terpenoids, lignans, flavonoids, flavonoids glycosides, cyanogens, and cyanophoric glycosides.
5: Many components obtained from  R. crenulata have been screened for their bioactivities, and some of them had been reported to exhibit various pharmacological activities.
6: It was found that the Kaempferol, salidroside, arbutin and rhodiolinin identified from  R. crenulata had excellent antioxidant capacity and could significantly improve the irradiation-induced cell apoptosis [ 25].
7: The polyphenol compounds epicatechin-(4 beta, 8)-epicatechingallate (B2-3- O-gallate), epicatechin gallate (ECG), and epicatechin (EC) isolated from  R. crenulata showed strong inhibitory activity to the maltase and sucrase [ 26].
8: In addition, (-)-Epicatechin gallate ((-)-ECG), 1,2,3,4,6- O-pentagalloylglucose (PGG), rhodionin, herbacetin and rhodiosin exhibited potent inhibitory effects on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) with the median effective inhibitory concentration (IC 50) value ranging from 2.43 to 57.50 mu g/mL [ 27].
