0: Simple SummaryThe aim of this analysis was to reveal the effects of    Citrus aurantium essential oil on growth performance, histopathological effect on digestive system organs, expression levels of some growth-related genes in the muscle tissue and some immune-related genes in the head kidney of common carp    Cyprinus carpio.
1: To determine the effect of essential oil on carp, experimental diets containing different concentrations of essential oil were prepared, and the fish were fed these diets for 60 days.
2: At the end of the feeding experiment, it was observed that low-dose essential oil supplementation increased immune related gene expression levels and growth-related gene expression levels in head kidney and muscle tissue, respectively.
3: Pathological findings were observed in the liver and intestines of fish fed with high doses of essential oil supplemented diets.
4: AbstractThe aim of this study was to detect effects of bitter orange (   Citrus aurantium) essential oil, commonly called neroli oil (NO) (0, 0.25, 0.50, 1, and 1.5% referred to as NO   0 NO   0.25, NO   0.
5: 05, NO   1 and NO   1.5, respectively) on growth performance output and expression levels of some growth-related genes in the muscle tissue and some immune-related genes in the head kidney and pathological differences in digestive system organs of common carp    Cyprinus carpio.
6: The NO   0.25 group had a large improvement in growth efficiency at the end of the 60-day feeding cycle.
7: Real-time PCR (Bio RAD, USA) system was used to detect variations in gene expression levels.
8: Furthermore, NO supplementation of up to 0.25% in muscle tissue controlled the release of growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I).
9: Furthermore, in the NO   0.25 treatment category, immune response gene levels TNF-, IL-8 and IL-1 increased in head kidney tissue.
10: In the histological examination of the liver and intestine, there were significant differences between fish fed with N   1 and N   1.5 diets.
11: This study confirms that dietary supplementation of NO up to 0.25% can improve common carp growth efficiency and increase the expression of genes (GH and IGF-I) related to muscle growth, TNF-, IL-8 and IL-1 genes related to immune status, and liver and intestine histological status of common carp.
