0: For centuries, herb plants are used as a source of medicine.
1: World Health Organization (WHO) reports that the world's population resort to folk medicine for their primary healthcare needs [ 1].
2: In this context, natural products, such as plant extracts, either as pure compounds or as standardized extracts, provide unlimited opportunities for new drug discoveries [ 2].
3: Also, vegetable materials are used from ancient time as source of flavoring, beverages, fragrances, and cosmetics products.
4: This is because the plant materials have unique properties to synthesize biologically active compounds resulted as metabolites from their so-called secondary metabolism [ 3].
5: Between the four major classes of bioactive secondary metabolites (terpenes, phenolics, glycosides, and alkaloids), the phenolic compounds (derived from secondary metabolism of the aromatic amino acids) have antioxidant, anticarcinogenic, and antimutagenic activities, being of particular importance for human health [ 4].
6: They are also known to decrease cardiovascular risks [ 5].
7: Epidemiological studies demonstrated the ability of plant polyphenols to offer protection against development of cancers, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, osteoporosis, and neurodegenerative diseases [ 6].
8: The phenolic groups in polyphenols accept an electron to form relatively stable phenoxyl radicals, disrupting chain oxidation reactions in cellular components [ 7].
9: Phenolics represent a large variety of compounds such as simple phenols, phenolic acids, coumarins, flavonoids, stilbenes, hydrolysable and condensed tannins, lignans, and lignins [ 8].
10: It should be noted that flavonoids represent one of the most important natural phenols.
11: Another important class of compounds occurring in plant materials is represented by terpenoids, which play an essential role in development of living systems.
12: Most of them are volatile substances and are generally present in the essential oil obtained by extractive methods.
