0: Here, we advance previous studies and present the most comprehensive global analysis, to our knowledge, of the patterns and drivers of alien plant species richness.
1: We focus on two key stages in the spread of alien plants, i.e.
2: naturalized plants (= permanently established alien species) and invasive plants (= alien species that spread widely and cause negative impacts on the environment;  CBD 2000), because the main drivers of these stages might differ.
3: We calculated the relative richness of naturalized and invasive plants as the numbers of naturalized and invasive species relative to the number of native species in a region.
4: While the relative richness of naturalized species (RNN) is quantifying the magnitude of permanent anthropogenic additions to the regional species pool, the relative richness of invasive species (RRI) considers alien species that cause negative environmental impacts.
5: By relating alien to native species richness, the metrics used illustrate how the contribution of alien species to entire regional species pools varies across the globe instead of just demonstrating patterns of alien species numbers.
6: Native plant species richness on a global scale is strongly driven by energy availability (temperature, amount and timing of precipitation) and environmental heterogeneity ( Hawkins   et al.
7: 2003 ), and it is further moderated by historical legacy of climatic and evolutionary factors ( Kreft and Jetz 2007).
8: This makes native species richness a better proxy for assessing the regional variation in plant invasions compared to other variables such as the widely used region size, as area does not account for the above-mentioned factors.
9: We acknowledge that alternative metrics such as absolute numbers of alien species ( Pysek   et al.
10: 2010 ;  Essl   et al.
11: 2011 ;  Dawson   et al.
12: 2017 ;  Moser   et al.
13: 2018 ), or the proportion of naturalized species that have become invasive ( Dawson   et al.
14: 2009 ) have been used for testing hypotheses of biological invasions.
15: Both absolute and relative richness of alien plant species deliver important and complementary insights into the drivers of invasions.
16: The relative metrics we use here are particularly suited to shedding light on the factors that drive the magnitude of changes brought about by biological invasions.
