0: Plants and their constituents have been used to treat diverse ailments since time immemorial.
1: Many plants are used in diverse external and internal formulations (infusions, alcoholic extracts, essential oils (EOs), etc.)
2: in the treatment of inflammation-associated diseases, such as those affecting the respiratory tract or causing gastrointestinal or joint problems, among others.
3: To support the traditional uses of plant extracts, EOs have been assessed for their alleged anti-inflammatory properties.
4: However, the effect of EOs on the release of cytokines and chemokines has been much less reported.
5: Considering their traditional use and commercial relevance in Portugal and Angola, this study evaluated the effect of EOs on the in vitro inhibition of the cytokine tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2) by lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated human acute monocytic leukemia cells (THP-1 cells).
6: Twenty EOs extracted from eighteen species from seven families, namely from Amaranthaceae (  Dysphania ambrosioides), Apiaceae (  Foeniculum vulgare), Asteraceae (  Brachylaena huillensis,   Solidago virgaurea), Euphorbiaceae (  Spirostachys africana), Lamiaceae (  Lavandula luisieri,   Mentha cervina,   Origanum majorana,   Satureja montana,   Thymbra capitata,   Thymus mastichina,   Thymus vulgaris,   Thymus zygis subsp.
7: zygis), Myrtaceae (  Eucalyptus globulus subsp.
8: maidenii,   Eucalyptus radiata,   Eucalyptus viminalis) and Pinaceae (  Pinus pinaster) were assayed for the release of CCL2 and TNF- by LPS-stimulated THP-1 cells.
9: B. huillensis, S. africana, S. montana, Th.
10: mastichina and   Th.
11: vulgaris EOs showed toxicity to THP-1 cells, at the lowest concentration tested (10 g/mL), using the tetrazolium dye assay.
12: The most active EOs in reducing TNF- release by LPS-stimulated THP-1 cells were those of   T. capitata (51% inhibition at 20 g/mL) and   L. luisieri (1523% inhibition at 30 g/mL and 7883% inhibition at 90 g/mL).
13: L. luisieri EO induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of CCL2 release by LPSstimulated THP-1 cells (23%, 54% and 82% inhibition at 10, 30 and 90 g/mL, respectively).
14: These EOs are potentially useful in the management of inflammatory diseases mediated by CCL2 and TNF, such as atherosclerosis and arthritis.
