0: Cannabis sativa L. or cannabis is a herbaceous annual that has a long history of use around the world as fiber, food, oil as well as medicine.
1: Depending on the purposes of utilization, they can be called by different names; for example, hemp as a fiber and textile crop and recreational cannabis, or known in the USA as marijuana.
2: Aside from its quality as an industrial textile, the psychoactive properties have labeled a grey stigma to cannabis plants as being an illicit drug with many informal names including pot, dope, grass, weed, Mary Jane, bud, hash, bhang, kef, ganja, locoweed, reefer, doob, spliff, toke, and roach.
3: It has been forbidden to grow in many countries due to the psychoactive ingredients contained [ 1].
4: In a medical sense, many recent studies have advised that the increase in cannabis use was in association with psychiatric symptoms including depression and anxiety [ 2, 3].
5: However, many users still exclusively endorse its recreational purpose [ 4, 5].
6: As a result, there has been a strong movement toward correcting negative attitudes of the cannabis and attempts have been made in trying to remove this plant from narcotic lists.
7: In Thailand, for instance, as from 2020, cannabis strains such as  (hemp) and  (marijuana) are legally grown for industrial fiber or medicinal purposes under the controlled level of active metabolites including cannabinoids of 9tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) [ 6].
8: While focus has paid attention primarily to the bioactive functions of the cannabinoids, the hydrocarbon terpenes could also offer interesting entourage effects that could ideally synergize or downstream their effects [ 7].
9: Eminently, with the rise in the legal cannabis industry, interest has been made around cannabis terpenes as they contribute many of the different aromatic characteristics that influence the diverse varieties of cannabis strains [ 8].
10: Within the scope of this review, we provide the general background history of cannabis discovery and the importance of the terpenes.
11: The taxonomy and morphology of the cannabis, particularly the localization of the terpenes, are discussed.
12: More importantly, the chemistry, biosynthesis, and diversity of terpenes in different cannabis genotypes are of major interest in this review.
