0: The basic functions of greenery and the advantages of trees in urban ecosystems are widely known.
1: They have positive influence on the city landscape and health-promoting effects for the citys population.
2: Usually the city is seen as one big ecosystem or as a complex of several individual ecosystems, e.g.
3: parks and alleys [ 1].
4: The ecosystem functions of trees include decreasing ambient temperature, shading paved grounds, retaining rainwater, and removing air pollution [ 2 8].
5: It is broadly recognised that arborescent vegetation (tall greenery) can attenuate the urban heat island effect and build the resilience of cities to climate change [ 9].
6: The influence of trees on the range of ecosystem services is closely related to their physiological condition and capacity to persist within urban greenery [ 10].
7: Particularly large, old trees are important components of urban ecosystems [ 11, 12].
8: They are known for influencing rich biodiversity [ 13] by providing microhabitats in their structure.
9: Habitat structures provided by large, old trees take a long time to form and are not provided by younger trees.
10: Relative to their size, they are disproportionate providers of resources crucial to other species [ 14].
11: Veteran trees also significantly contribute to ecosystem services (e.g., water balance, carbon sequestration, increasing air quality) [ 12, 14 17].
12: Data collected by Hand et al.
13: [ 18] in Great Britain demonstrate that the amount of carbon stored is low in young and semi-mature trees and highest in over-mature and veteran trees.
14: Gross carbon sequestration rate also increases with tree age.
15: The same research indicated that larger trees (usually older) with larger total leaf areas allow greater quantities of rainfall to be intercepted and that most examined species of trees showed an increased capacity for pollutant removal with increasing age.
16: Old trees, which can be found in historical gardens, parks and alleys, are also important elements of cultural heritage.
