0: AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by a training program of Healthy Food for Life project sponsored by International Research Staff Exchange Scheme (IRSES), we are grateful to their support during the training period.
1: We are thankful to Professor Mihamou Aatika for the botanical identification of   A. campestris L. We address our thanks to Franck Michels and Danny Trisman, technicians affiliated to Laboratory of Chimie Generale et Organique, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, Univesrite de Lierge_Belgium, for the thechincal assistance, and to Mostafa Bedraoui technician from laboratory of Physiologie, Genetique et Ethnopharmacologie_Faculte des Sciences, Universite Mohamed Premier, Oujda_Morocco, for the reliable care of animals breeding.
2: FundingThe authors declare that they have received no funding for the research reported.Availability of data and materialsAll data and materials supporting the conclusion in this paper are described and included in this published article.Authors contributionsID conducted the animal studies, biochemical assays, performed the statistical analysis and wrote the manuscript.
3: AZ oversaw all the work, approved the experimental design, analyzed and interpreted the results and revised the manuscript.
4: AA contributed to the achievement of the isolated aorta experiments.
5: FB and HM carried out the antiplatelet test and helped to improve the manuscript.
6: MLF and MS performed GC and GC/MS analyses of the essential oil and participated in the correction of the manuscript.
7: MB gave some instructions and recommendations to improve the GC/MS analysis part.
8: MB, MA and AL helped in the correction of the manuscript.
9: All the authors read the manuscript and approved the final version.Competing interestsThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.Consent for publicationNot applicable.Ethics approval and consent to participateAll animals were cared for in compliance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, published by the US National Institutes of Health(National Institutes of Health.
10: 2011.
11: Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.
12: Eight Edition).
13: Also this study followed principles in the Declaration of Helsinki (   http://www.wma.net/en/policy/b3.html ).
