0: Calotropis procera (Aiton) W.T.
1: Aiton (Family Apocynaceae) is known as Sodoms apple.
2: It is a widely distributed plant worldwide, particularly in arid and semi-arid areas.
3: It is a native tree to northern Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, the Middle East, and southern Asia.
4: Additionally, it is considered a weed in several habitats such as roadsides, waste areas, near watercourses, disturbed sites, open woodlands, sand dunes, grasslands, and pastures [ 19].
5: Calotropis procera is used excessively in folk medicines for the treatment of cold, fever, leprosy, asthma, rheumatism, eczema, indigestion, diarrhea, elephantiasis, skin diseases, and dysentery [ 20, 21].
6: Several pharmacological activities were documented for different extracts of  C. procera such as anticancer, anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic, gastroprotective, cardiovascular, antipyretic, antioxidant, anthelmintic, anti-angiogenic, hypolipidemic, antimicrobial, analgesic, and anticonvulsant [ 7, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26].
7: Due to the high biological impacts of this plant, many studies identified the presence of several metabolites such as flavonoids, tannins, terpenoids, saponins, alkaloids, steroids, and cardenolides [ 24, 26, 27].
8: Additionally, the EO of this plant was studied for Indian [ 28], Nigerian [ 29, 30], and Egyptian ecospecies [ 31].
9: However, no study explored the variation of the EO of this tree with different climatic and environmental conditions.
10: Many studies have proposed that the chemical composition either in quality or quantity is substantially affected by the variation in the climatic and environmental conditions [ 11, 14, 32, 33].
11: Therefore, the present work aimed to, (i) study the comparative chemical profiles of the EOs of  C. procera collected samples from Saudi Arabia and Egypt, as well as with the other reported ecospecies, (ii) assess the phytotoxic effects of EOs of both samples on the weeds  Bidens pilosa L. and  Dactyloctenium aegyptium (L.) Willd., and (iii) evaluate antimicrobial activities of EOs against some bacterial and fungal strains.
