0: Cumin ( Cuminum cyminum L.) is one of the most important spicy and medical plants in the world, which belongs to the Apiaceae family.
1: The Apiaceae family consists of 455 genera and over 3500 species and is regarded as one of the largest plant families [ 1,  2].
2: An effective and reproducible in vitro regeneration system is required for studies on genetic manipulation in each plant species [ 3].
3: Somatic embryogenesis is the developmental restructuring of somatic cells toward the embryogenic pathway and forms the basis of cellular totipotency in higher plants [ 4].
4: Somatic embryogenesis is one of the most effective techniques to be used in biotechnological studies such as producing transgenic plants, artificial seeds, micropropagation, and germplasm conservation [ 5,  6].
5: Somatic embryogenesis was initially reported in the Apiaceae family and in vitro culture of carrot [ 7,  8].
6: Genotypic properties of plants, physiological characteristics of the explant, and cell status in plant tissues can be mentioned as factors influencing somatic embryogenesis [ 9].
7: Somatic embryogenesis is a model system for understanding the physiological, biochemical, and molecular biological events occurring during plant embryo development [ 4].
8: Studies showed that various genotypes in a plant species have different embryogenesis capabilities, depending on genetic and biochemical properties, ability level of key elements in regeneration path, and also endogenous phytohormones metabolism [ 10].
9: Dave and Batra [ 11] conducted the first study of somatic embryogenesis in cumin using different explants including root, hypocotyls, and cotyledons.
10: They stated that hypocotyl explants in MS medium complemented with 8 mg/L BA showed the best response to embryogenesis and emphasized the necessity of cytokinins hormone for production and development of cumin somatic embryos [ 11].
11: It seems that auxin hormones were stimulators of intracellular biochemical reactions and specific genes in preembryo cells, which are required for producing globular embryos.
12: The researchers observed that elimination of auxin from medium can lead to the continuation of somatic embryogenesis [ 8,  12,  13].
13: Measurement of chemical compositions such as contents of proline, protein, and antioxidant enzymes including catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, and peroxidase has been used as a marker to evaluate somatic embryogenesis in different studies [ 10,  14,  15].
14: Studies suggest that antioxidant enzymes such as catalase and ascorbate peroxidase play an important role in maturity and differentiation of plant tissues and their high activity affects cellular processes such as somatic embryogenesis [ 10,  16,  17].
15: Terpenic hydrocarbons, alcohols, and phenols existing in the essential oil of plants are among the genetic properties affecting somatic embryogenesis.
16: Researchers stated that terpenic hydrocarbons have positive effects on somatic embryogenesis process, while alcohols and phenols have negative effects on the process [ 18 20].
17: Ebrahimie et al.
18: [ 3] used the cut seed embryo of cumin as an explant in B5 medium and introduced 0.4 mg IAA + 0.2 mg NAA + 0.1 mg BAP as the best hormone combination.
19: Kahrizi and Soorni [ 21] used 2,4-D and Kin in cumin developed embryogenic calluses and reported that an increase in the concentration of 2,4-D hormones has a positive effect on somatic embryogenesis, but their study was only confined to callus formation and they did not report on regeneration and adaptation.
20: Although few studies were conducted on somatic embryogenesis and regeneration in cumin, already no report has been registered on the relationships between genetic properties like chemical compositions existing in the plant and somatic embryogenesis process and evaluation of somaclonal variation of regenerated plants.
21: Therefore, the current study is aimed at measuring chemical compositions, optimizing somatic embryogenesis and regeneration, assessment of somaclonal variation in regenerated plants as compared to the mother plant, and then evaluating relationships of these properties in the two superior Iranian landraces of cumin.
