0: An examination of perilla oil, almond oil, and hemp seed oil found that the linoleic acid content was the highest in the hemp seed oil, -linolenic content was the highest in perilla oil, and MUFA content was the highest in almond oil.
1: The characteristic fatty acids in the three types of edible vegetable oils were all different, displaying a variety of contents.
2: 19 Several studies compared the fatty acid composition of olive oil, camellia oil, peanut oil, rapeseed oil, and soybean oil in which the content was analyzed.
3: Results indicated that both olive oil and camellia oil were rich in n-9 fatty acids; peanut oil, olive oil, and camellia oil were low in n-3 fatty acids; and peanut oil and soybean oil contained high levels of n-6 fatty acids.
4: From a nutritional perspective, edible vegetable oil rich in n-9 fatty acids, i.e., oleic acid is not suitable for single long-term, uninterrupted consumption because it is not an essential fatty acid according to Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs), and prolonged ingestion will result in an insufficient intake of essential fatty acids.
5: 20 Sacha inchi oil represented a new type of vegetable oil whose fatty acid, phytosterol, and vitamin E content were compared with that of common edible vegetable oils.
6: The results indicated that the -linolenic acid and phytosterol levels were 43.62% and 265.61 mg/100 g, respectively, which exceeded the corresponding levels in common edible vegetable oils.
7: 21 The calories, SFA content, n-6/n-3 ratio, and vitamin E content of rapeseed oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, and palm oil were also determined.
8: Except for soybean oil, sunflower oil, and cottonseed oil, the ratio of polyunsaturated and vitamin E content was ideal in the rest of the plant oils.
9: Therefore, edible vegetable oil exhibiting sufficient levels of fatty acid saturation, n-6/n-3 ratio, and appropriate vitamin E content should be selected to adequately fulfill human dietary requirements.
10: 22
