0: In this framework, considering the activity of our laboratory in the field of drugs of abuse in particular cannabis derivatives, synthetic cannabinoids and cathinones ( Valoti et al., 2012;  Cannizzaro et al., 2016) we were interested in studying the Italian panorama of cannabis oils (n. 8201 samples from 2017 to 2019), which were analyzed by our laboratory to determine their cannabinoids content.
1: These oil samples belonging to different cannabis varieties, here intended as chemotypes ( Dei Cas et al., 2020), principally contain THC (chemotype I: Bedrocan) or CBD (chemotype III: Bedrolite) or both of them (chemotype II: FM2 and Bediol).
2: Italian pharmacists prepared them according to different extraction methods present in the scientific literature [ Romano and Hazekamp, 2013;  Citti et al., 2016;  Societa Italiana Farmacisti Preparatori (SIFAP), 2016;  Calvi et al., 2018;  Casiraghi et al., 2018].
3: The crucial step in the preparation method is the decarboxylation to transform THCA and CBDA, present in the plant material, in the corresponding neutral forms THC and CBD.
4: The need for optimizing and standardizing decarboxylation procedures is dictated by pharmacological reasons because the acidic and neutral cannabinoids have different pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties that will influence the pharmacological profile of the final product, according to the relative amount of the two compounds.
5: A striking pharmacokinetic difference between THCA and THC concerns the passage through the bloodbrain barrier (BBB).
6: As THCA is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp/abcb1) and breast cancer resistance protein (Bcrp/abcg2), its penetration into the CNS is limited ( Spiro et al., 2012).
7: Both abcb1 and abcg2 belong to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of efflux transporters and are critical to BBB function, where they impede the passage of their substrates into the brain ( Agarwal and Elmquist, 2012).
8: Thus, the pharmacological activity of THCA would mainly rely on peripheral effects, as already suggested by the lack of psychoactive properties.
9: This is not in contrast with the supposed antiemetic properties of THCA because some peripheral mechanisms of cannabinoids have been described.
10: However, other proposed pharmacological effects of THCA, strictly related to central activities, such as muscle relaxation, should be reconsidered or refused ( Russo, 2018).
