0: Basil ( Ocimum basilicum L.) is an annual herb growing in several regions around the world.
1: The genus  Ocimum consists of more than 150 species whereof basil is cultivated in many countries as a major essential oil crop [ 1].
2: The species most commonly used as spices and medicinal herbs are  O. basilicum L.,  O. americanum L. (syn.
3: O. canum Sims.
4: ),  O. gratissimum L.,  O. kilimandscharicum Guerke,  O. tenuiflorum L. (syn.
5: O. sanctum L.), and  O. africanum Lour.
6: (syn.
7: O.   citriodorum Vis.
8: ), that is a hybrid of  O. basilicum and  O. americanum [ 2].
9: The taxonomy of the genus  Ocimum is very complicated due to the occurrence of interspecific hybridization, polyploidy, aneuploidy, the existence of numerous botanical varieties, and chemotypes, as well as the many synonymous names [ 3, 4, 5].
10: Plants of the species  O. basilicum have square stems, fragrant opposite leaves, and whorled flowers on spiked inflorescences [ 6].
11: O. basilicum L. is widely used in the culinary arts and in the food processing industry [ 7].
12: Traditionally, it has been used as medicinal plant for the treatment of headaches, coughs, diarrhea, constipation, warts, worms, and kidney malfunction [ 8].
13: A plethora of biological activities have been attributed to basil essential oils like antimicrobial, insecticidal, and recently was found to exhibit in vivo anti-malarial activity [ 9].
14: In addition, extracts from leaves and flowers can be used as aroma additives in food, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic industry [ 10].
15: Economical data clearly indicate the commercial importance of basil essential oil, since the world production is estimated to 1,200,000  [ 8].
16: Basil essential oils contain a broad array of chemical compounds depending on variations in chemotypes, flower, and leaf colours, aroma and especially the origin of the plant [ 7].
17: The essential oil constituents vary among sweet basil cultivars, with linalool, methyl chavicol, eugenol, 1,8-cineole, geranial, neral, methyl cinnamate recognized as main components [ 11, 12, 13].
18: Several scientists have classified basil to different chemotypes according to the main components of the essential oil.
19: Thereby, Marotti et al.
20: (1996) divided essential oil from Italian basil varieties to three chemotypes linalool, linalool-methyl chavicol, and linalool-eugenol [ 14].
21: According to the plant origin, basils are grouped to European chemotype that has linalool and methyl chavicol as main components and Tropical chemotype having methyl chavicol as a main compound [ 15].
22: Concerning the cultivation of basil, the plants can be harvested one to three times during cropping season depending on the climate [ 16].
23: Generally, basil is harvested for the leaves that are sold fresh or dried.
24: In the cases that basil is cultivated for dried leaves and extraction of essential oil, the plants are cut just prior the appearance of the flowers [ 17].
25: Scientific data concerning how harvest and number of harvests during the cultivation of aromatic plants affect essential oil quality and composition are lacking either in field or greenhouse conditions.
26: To the best of our knowledge, so far Carlo et al.
27: (2013) studied the effect of cut number in quality traits of sweet basil [ 18].
28: Also Zheljazkof et al.
29: (2008) studied the effect of harvests in  O. basilicum L. (cvs.
30: German and Mesten) and  O. sanctum L. (syn.
31: O. tenuiflorum L.) (cv.
32: Local) cultivated in Mississippi [ 9].
33: Taking into account that geographic position and the environmental characteristics of the habitat should be taken as factors affecting the chemical composition of the essential oils [ 19], the current study is the first including total chemical analysis of the essential oils from five basil varieties cultivated and harvested in the field and greenhouse in the island of Kefalonia, (Greece).
34: The aim of our study is the chemical analysis of essential oils from the five varieties of basil considering also the cultivation site as well as how the ability of the plant to rejuvenate after successive cuttings during growing cycle, affects the obtained essential oil yield and composition.
35: In order to simulate the natural growing conditions, successive cuttings were performed in every variety just before flowering stage, as done practically from aromatic plants growers.
36: Moreover the cluster analysis of all basil varieties for greenhouse and field samples is given.
