0: The purpose of the study was to determine the differences between two subspecies:   O.   vulgare L. subsp.
1: hirtum (Link) Ietswaart (Greek oregano) and   O.   vulgare L. subsp.
2: vulgare (common oregano) growing in cultivation conditions within temperate climate of Central Europe.
3: The characteristic of the subspecies was undertaken in terms of selected morphological parameters and the quality of the raw material.
4: The herb of both subspecies was evaluated on the content and composition of essential oil by hydrodistillation followed by GC-MS and GC-FID (gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry and flame ionization detector), the total content of phenolic acids (according to PP 6th ed.)
5: and the content of rosmarinic acid (by HPLC).
6: The sensory evaluation (QDA) was performed, as well.
7: Greek oregano was distinguished by visibly higher number of glandular trichomes on the leaves (up to 4.85 per 1 mm  2) followed by higher content of essential oil in the herb (up to 3.36 g  100 g  1 DW) in comparison to common oregano.
8: Based on the essential oil composition, Greek oregano was classified as mixed carvacrol/-terpinene chemotype, while common oregano as mixed sabinyl/cymyl type rich in sesquiterpenes.
9: Greek oregano was also characterized by higher total content of phenolic acids (up to 6.16 g  100 g  1 DW) and rosmarinic acid (up to 6787.2 mg  100 g  1 DW) than common oregano.
10: Essential oil content reached the maximum at the beginning of blooming (common oregano) and at the full blooming stage (Greek oregano).
11: In turn, the amount of phenolic acids followed by rosmarinic acid was the highest at the beginning of seed-setting stage, in the case of both subspecies.
12: The differences between subspecies concerning chemical composition (especially essential oil) were reflected in the sensory attributes, where both odor and taste notes were found at higher level for Greek oregano.
13: Results of our work indicate that Greek oregano is well adapted to grow in the temperate zone conditions.
14: Such adaptation was reflected mainly in the satisfied yield and maintaining characters typical for the Mediterranean plant, e.g., a high essential oil content followed by high carvacrol share, traits the most important from practice viewpoint.
