0: Plants with medicinal properties have been used in the treatment of several infectious diseases, including   Acanthamoeba infections.
1: The medicinal properties of Cambodian plant extracts;   Annona muricata and   Combretum trifoliatum were investigated against   Acanthamoeba triangularis.
2: A total of 39 plant extracts were evaluated and, as a result, 22 extracts showed positive anti-  Acanthamoeba activity.
3: Of the 22 extracts, 9 and 4 extracts showed anti-  Acanthamoeba activity against trophozoites and cysts of   A. triangularis, respectively.
4: The minimum inhibitory concentration of   A. muricata and   C. trifoliatum extracts against trophozoites and cysts was 500 and 1,000 g/mL, respectively.
5: The combination of   A. muricata at 1/4MIC with chlorhexidine at 1/8MIC demonstrated a synergistic effect against trophozoites, but partial synergy against cysts.
6: A 40% reduction in trophozoites and 60% of cysts adhered to the plastic surface treated with both extracts at 1/2MIC were noted comparing to the control (P< 0.05).
7: Furthermore, a reduction of 80% and 90% of trophozoites adhered to the surface was observed after pre-treatment with   A. muricata and   C. trifoliatum extracts, respectively.
8: A 90% of cysts adhered to the surface was decreased with pre-treatment of   A. muricata at 1/2MIC (P< 0.05).
9: A 75% of trophozoites and cysts from   Acanthamoeba adhered to the surface were removed after treatment with both extracts at 4MIC (P< 0.05).
10: In the model of contact lens, 1 log cells/mL of trophozoites and cysts was significantly decreased post-treatment with both extracts compared to the control.
11: Trophozoites showed strong loss of acanthopodia and thorn-like projection pseudopodia, while cysts demonstrated retraction and folded appearance treated with both extracts when observed by SEM, which suggests the potential benefits of the medicinal plants   A. muricata and   C. trifoliatum as an option treatment against   Acanthamoeba infections.
