0: BackgroundAtractylodes lancea (AL) has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of various diseases including digestive disorders.
1: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a common digestive system disease with a low cure rate and easy recurrence.
2: However, it is still not clear whether AL is suitable for UC treatment.
3: Currently, stir-baking with wheat bran is most commonly used to process AL.
4: Here, we aimed to address the effects of the crude and bran-processed AL on UC in vitro and uncover the underlying mechanism based on regulating the IKK/NF-kappa B signaling pathway.
5: Methods Human colonic epithelial cells (HCoEpiC) were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to mimic the inflammatory injury of UC in vitro.
6: The essential oil from crude and bran-processed AL was used to treat LPS-induced HcoEpiC cells.
7: The cell viability was detected by an MTT assay.
8: The levels of IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12, IL-1-   , TNF-   , and NO were determined by ELISA, and the mRNA expressions of IKK-   , NF-   B, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-    were determined by RT-PCR.
9: Meanwhile, the expressions of IKK-   , p-IKK-   , p-IKK-   , NF-   B, IL-6, and IL-8 proteins were determined by Western blot.
10: Results The essential oil of AL, whether it was from crude or bran-processed AL, could significantly increase the viability of LPS-induced HCoEpiC cells.
11: The treatment of AL essential oil also notably inhibited the productions of IL-6, IL-8, IL-12, IL-1-   , TNF-   , NO, p-IKK-   , p-IKK-   , and NF-   B and downregulated the mRNA expressions of NF-   B, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-   .
12: Meanwhile, IL-4 protein and mRNA expression were significantly stimulated by AL essential oil.
13: Moreover, the essential oil from bran-processed AL was more effective than that from crude AL.
14: Conclusion Both kinds of AL essential oil had the anti-inflammatory effect on LPS-induced HCoEpiC, and the essential oil from bran-processed AL was more effective.
15: The mechanism could be through the IKK/NF-   B signaling pathway in vitro.
