0: Artemisia jordanica (AJ) is one of the folkloric medicinal plants and grows in the arid condition used by Palestinian Bedouins in the Al-Naqab desert for the treatment of diabetes and gastrointestinal infections.
1: The current investigation aimed, for the first time, to characterize the (AJ) essential oil (EO) components and evaluate EOs antioxidant, anti-obesity, antidiabetic, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and cytotoxic activities.
2: The gas chromatography-mass spectrometer (GC-MS) technique was utilized to characterize the chemical ingredients of (AJ) EO, while validated biochemical approaches were utilized to evaluate the antioxidant, anti-obesity and antidiabetic.
3: The microbicidal efficacy of (AJ) EO was measured utilizing the broth microdilution assay.
4: Besides, the cytotoxic activity was estimated utilizing the (MTS) procedure.
5: Finally, the anti-inflammatory activity was measured utilizing a COX inhibitory screening test kit.
6: The analytical investigation revealed the presence of 19 molecules in the (AJ) EO.
7: Oxygenated terpenoids, including bornyl acetate (63.40%) and endo-borneol (17.75%) presented as major components of the (AJ) EO.
8: The EO exhibited potent antioxidant activity compared with Trolox, while it showed a weak anti-lipase effect compared with orlistat.
9: In addition, the tested EO displayed a potent -amylase suppressing effect compared with the positive control acarbose.
10: Notably, the (AJ) EO exhibited strong -glucosidase inhibitory potential compared with the positive control acarbose.
11: The EO had has a cytotoxic effect against all the screened tumor cells.
12: In fact, (AJ) EO showed potent antimicrobial properties.
13: Besides, the EO inhibited the enzymes COX-1 and COX-2, compared with the anti-inflammatory drug ketoprofen.
14: The (AJ) EO has strong antioxidant, antibacterial, antifungal, anti--amylase, anti--glucosidase, and COX inhibitory effects which could be a favorite candidate for the treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases caused by harmful free radicals, microbial resistance, diabetes, and inflammations.
15: Further in-depth investigations are urgently crucial to explore the importance of such medicinal plants in pharmaceutical production.
