0: Aromatic and medicinal plants are important sources of secondary metabolites, which have a wide range of applications in control of plant and human diseases, cosmetics, as well as in the pharmaceutical industry [ 1].
1: In the plant kingdom, family Asteraceae is endowed with essential oil-yielding plants, and among these plants, the genus  Artemisia occupies top position for its bio-prospection.
2: The genus consists of small herbs and shrubs, found in northern temperate regions and comprises of about 500 species from South Asia, North America and European countries [ 2].
3: Species of the genus are called by the common names mugwort, wormwood and sagebrush.
4: Due to presence of terpenoids and sesquiterpene lactones, most of the species possess strong aromas and bitter tastes, which discourage herbivory, and may have had a selective advantage [ 3].
5: These species have wide and varied applications in plant and human disease control and in the pharmaceutical industry.
6: There are several species of  Artemisia that have been investigated as antimicrobial, antioxidant, cytotoxic, insecticidal, repellent and anticonvulsant agents [ 4, 5].
7: Although a review on the genus  Artemisia was published by Abad et al.
8: [ 2] on the chemical composition, ethanopharmacological and biocidal activity of essential oils, they took the data from 20002011, and mainly focused on human pathogens.
9: Recently, another review compiled by Al-Snafi [ 6], which focused only on  A. campestris, revealed several pharmacological activities, such as antimicrobial, antioxidant, cytotoxic, insecticidal, antivenomous, and many other pharmacological effects.
10: In this review, we have compiled the data from 20122017 on chemical composition, antimicrobial, insecticidal and antioxidant activities of  Artemisia species.
11: Regarding antimicrobial and insecticidal activities of essential oils, here, we have mainly focused on pathogens and pests of plants and, since Abad et al.
12: [ 2] did not describe earlier literature on antimicrobial and insecticidal activities of  Artemisia oils on same aspects and also antioxidant activity, so in this review we have also covered the literature from 2000 onwards on these aspects.
