0: Plants belonging to  Origanum genus ( Lamiaceae family) have been known as culinary and medicinal plants since ancient times.
1: This genus contains 49 taxa belonging to 10 sections.
2: Some species, including  Origanum vulgare L., are rich in essential oil and commonly known as oregano [ 1].
3: Origanum vulgare L., an aromatic, perennial sub-shrub, is widely distributed all over Eurasia and North Africa [ 2].
4: The species is regarded to be extremely variable, both in its morphological features and chemical composition.
5: Given its specific biological character and significant economic importance,  O.  vulgare has been placed in the List of Priority Species in Europe [ 3].
6: According to the widely accepted taxonomy, six subspecies of  O.  vulgare have been recognized [ 2, 4].
7: Among them,  O.  vulgare L. subsp.
8: hirtum (Link) Ietswaart so-called Greek oregano, endemic to the Mediterranean area, is cultivated almost all over the world and regarded as the most valuable one [ 5].
9: Another subspecies important from economic point of view, is  Origanum vulgare L. subsp.
10: vulgare (common oregano).
11: It frequently occurs on the region of Northern and Central Europe and is the only representative of  O.  vulgare in Poland [ 6, 7].
12: The upper, not woody parts of flowering shoots (herb) of both subspecies is commonly used and traded raw material.
13: Besides the range of occurrence, these two subspecies differ in terms of many features, whereas the content and composition of essential oil seems to be the most important, because it determines medicinal properties of the herb and its sensory value [ 2].
14: Greek oregano is rich in essential oil (about 5%), while common oregano contains less amount (up to 2%) of this substance.
15: Subspecies create few various chemotypes defined on the basis of the dominant compound in essential oil.
16: Greek oregano accumulates mainly phenolic monoterpenes (thymol and carvacrol) followed by its precursors ( p-cymene and -terpinene).
17: In turn, common oregano is distinguished by less active biosynthesis of cymyl compounds in favor of the bicyclic sabinyl (i.a.
18: sabinene,  cis/ trans sabinene hydrate and its acetates) or acyclic once (i.a., -ocimene, -myrcen, linalyl acetate, linalool).
19: This kind of chemotype is often accompanied by high content of sesquiterpenes (i.a.
20: germacrene D, -caryophyllene and caryophyllene oxide) [ 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18].
21: Both  Origanum subspecies contain also considerable amounts of non-volatile phenolic compounds such as flavonoids and phenolic acids.
22: Rosmarinic acid followed by caffeic, vanillic,  o-coumaric and protocatechuic acids dominate in common oregano herb [ 7, 19, 20].
23: When given Greek oregano, rosmarinic and lithospermic acids are the present in the highest amounts [ 13, 21, 22].
24: In both subspecies, flavonoids are represented mainly by derivatives of luteoline and apigenine [ 7, 13, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24].
25: In relation with such a wide range of biologically active compounds, both  Origanum subspecies indicate various pharmacological activities, especially antimicrobial, choleretic and antioxidant.
26: Common oregano herb reveals also diuretic and expectorant properties, while Greek oreganostimulative, carminative, antispasmodic, and anticancer [ 25, 26].
27: It is worth noting that Greek oregano is listed in the European Pharmacopeia and is recommended as a remedy for gastrointestinal disorders treatment, temporary loss of appetite and to stimulate bile secretion [ 25, 26, 27].
28: Common oregano, even though not mentioned in European Pharmacopeia, used to be applied in the same way in both modern and folk medicine [ 28].
29: Both  Origanum subspecies are widely used not only in pharmaceutical industry but also as a food preservative and flavoring, cosmetic ingredient, and, most importantlyas a culinary herb [ 29, 30].
