0: A total of 8 treatments were used to evaluate the effects of the different soil conditions on the growth of  A. adenophora seedlings, that is, 2 soil types (AS, FS)  2 treatments (soil sterilization, nonsterilization)  2 inoculations (with, without  Colletotrichum sp.)
1: (Figure  S3).
2: Because we focused on the role of soil microbes in the growth of the host plant, the soil as an inoculation source was mixed with a sterilized matrix at a volume ratio of 1:9 to lessen the nutrient effects of the different soil types (Whitaker et al.,  2017).
3: The sterilized matrix was a mixture of equal proportions of agricultural soil and forest soil, and highpressure steam sterilization was carried out as described above.
4: Then, 5monthold  A. adenophora seedlings (Col+ and Col) were transplanted into sterilized pots with the different soil treatments.
5: The plants were cultured in an RXZ380D growth chamber (Ningbo Southeast Instrument Co., Ltd, Ningbo, China) at a temperature of 25  1C, light intensity of 80100 molm 2s 1, 12hr photoperiod and humidity of 80  5% and watered with the same amount of sterile water as needed every day.
6: After 2 months, the leaf dry biomass (LDB) per unit area, aboveground dry biomass (ADB), belowground dry biomass (BDB) and shoot length (SL) were measured.
7: Six seedlings (replicates) were planted in each treated soil, and three of the seedlings were randomly selected for fungal infection rate (FIR) detection.
8: The FIR was significantly different between the seedlings with and without  Colletotrichum sp.
9: inoculation (Figure  1, FIR(Col) = 1.46%, FIR(Col+) = 19.17%).
10: Since half of the seedlings were used to measure the fungal infection rate, the biomass data (ADB, BDB) included only the remaining three replicates in each treatment, and the SL measurements had 6 replicates.
11: The LDB per unit area was measured by punching the first five pairs of mature leaves with a 5mm inner diameter punch to obtain leaf disks and converting them to leaf weight per square meter after weighing.
12: There were 3 replicates for each leaf age and 15 replicates for each treatment.
13: Dry biomass was measured by drying the plant samples at 65C for 48 hr.
