0: CO 2 exchange was measured in order to demonstrate changes in the carbon exchange of the plants.
1: Therefore, as soon as the third leaf was fully expanded (indicated by stable leaf dry weight) three replicates were harvested and experiments performed.
2: This approach was chosen to assure sampling of plants at similar physiological stages of development and that the sampling material (the third leaf) was completely developed under treatment conditions.
3: The whole plant was harvested carefully and with the roots immersed in a small plastic container containing the original nutrient solution.
4: The third leaf was carefully positioned in the gas exchange cuvette (3010-GWK1, Walz, Effeltrich, Germany).
5: The cuvette was attached to an infrared gas analyser (LI-COR 6400, LI-COR Inc., Lincoln, NE, USA) to measure the CO 2 fluxes.
6: CO 2 concentration in the cuvette was adjusted to saturating conditions (1000 ppm) and the light was set to 200 mol photons/m 2 s (mimicking the conditions in the growth chamber).
7: The temperature was set to mimic the growth conditions for an initial equilibration phase.
8: Once the signal was stable, net photosynthesis (NP, light in the cuvette switched on), and dark respiration (light switched off and cuvette completely shaded) were measured at different temperatures (5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 C, in a randomly chosen sequence).
9: From these measurements, we obtained maximum net photosynthesis (NP max), optimal temperature for photosynthesis (T opt, the temperature range over which net photosynthesis was above 90% of its maximum), net photosynthesis and leaf respiration in the dark (DR) at the ambient growth temperature.
10: Thermal acclimation was displayed as a ratio between T opt and the growth temperature during the experiment.
11: A ratio of one indicated that the optimal temperature matches the growth temperature, values above one indicate that the optimal temperature was higher than the growth temperature and vice versa.
12: Carbon uptake rates were expressed on a dry weight basis, because the higher assimilation rates of fast-growing species on an area basis, are diluted by having a higher SLA simultaneously [ 15,  40,  43] and the aim of this study was to compare the net carbon gain rather than the net photosynthetic rate.
13: It was stated, therefore, that comparisons of photosynthesis and growth can only be made per unit plant weight and per unit of time [ 44].
