0: Aromatic plants fragrance and biological properties arise from their Essential oils.
1: Availability, fewer side-effects, and reduced toxicity of some aromatic medicinal plants resulted in their application for treating infectious diseases in different phytotherapy manuals (Lee et al., 2007).
2: Today, plant materials play key role in primary healthcare remedies in many developing countries (Zakaria, 1991).
3: Anti-microbial properties of physiologically active principles in medicinal herbs have led to their exploitation in traditional medicine for the treatment of various ailments (Kelmanson et al., 2000; Srinivasan et al., 2001).
4: Throughout history, numerous plant oils have been used for food safety and quality improvement (Yang et al., 2015).
5: Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Salmonella spp., and  Streptococci are among common foodborne pathogenic bacteria frequently isolated from various foods such as meat, dairy products, seafood and vegetables (Pirbalouti et al., 2010).
6: Food poisoning is caused due to consumption of foods Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria contaminated.
7: Essential oils are complex mixtures of volatile secondary metabolites compsed of mono- and sesquiterpenes such as carbohydrates, alcohols, ethers, aldehydes, and ketones, which are responsible for the fragrant and biological properties of aromatic medicinal plants (Senatore, et al.
8: 2004).
9: The genus  Dracocephalum L. is composed of about 60 species; also, eight species of  Dracocephalum grow as wild herbs in regions of Iran with high altitude.
10: Several studies have been conducted on identity and biological properties of the mentioned species (Fattahi, et al., 2013; Yousefzadeh, et al., 2013).
11: Dracocephalum kotschyi Boiss is native to Iran and grows wild at regions with 2000-3200 m altitude in Lorestan, Fars, Golestan, Hamadan, Mazandaran and Tehran provinces.
12: D. kotschyi is a short perennial herb that is woody below, its stems are 10-20 cm long and covered, and has small pubescent leaves that are calyx two-lipped, with upper lip three-toothed, stamens, and flowers in verticillasters in the ails of upper leaves (Mozaffarian, 2008).
13: In traditional medicine,  D.kotschyi is applied as a warm herbal medicine for rheumatoid diseases and stomach disorders treatment.
14: Its effectiveness for headaches, congestion, and liver disorders has been described as well (Zargari, 1995).
15: Moreover, Antihyperlipidemic (Sajjadi et al., 1998), anti-epimastigote (Saeidnia et al., 2004) and antivisceral (Golshani et al., 2004) effects are among the other properties reported for  D. kotschyi.
16: D.kotschyi herb is known as Sama in Lorestan locally and it is traditionally used in cooking meat and fish and dairy processing (Local People Interview) and there is a possibility that the use of this traditional herb could reduce the microbial load of the meat and dairy products.
