0: For total fruits, seed mass, seeds/fruit and total seeds data, we used a General Linear Model (GLM) with Poisson distribution.
1: Tukey comparisons were carried out to determine pairwise differences among the factors including sub-populations and mowing or unmowed treatments.
2: Fruit diameter was analyzed using the non-parametric KruskalWallis test to determine if mowed populations varied from unmowed, since data failed to meet normality assumptions even after transformation attempts.
3: Plant height from mowed and unmowed sub-populations were collected twice and analyzed separately using KruskalWallis tests.
4: Damage assessment on 04 scale data was analyzed using Poisson regression.
5: Seed germination data was also analyzed with a General linear Model with mowing (or unmowed control), GA (no GA control) treatment and week (week 09) as factors, followed by Tukey posthoc tests to tease apart pairwise comparisons.
6: For analyses of root traits, we used a combination of two-tailed T tests and non-parametric KruskalWallis tests based on the distribution of the data.
7: Variables for which the data didnt meet normality assumptions even after transformation were analyzed by KruskalWallis tests.
8: Specific root length was analyzed using two tailed t-tests.
9: Transformed data was back transformed for reporting as means and for plots.
10: In both analyses mowed/unmowed treatment was used as the predictor.
11: For experimental design and analyses, each genet (individual plant) is considered as the unit of replication, for both parental generation (sub-populations) and seedlings.
12: The detailed statistics are displayed in the table, and a few of the most relevant root traits of interest 64 are displayed as plots (see Table  1).
13: For field herbivore presence (yes or no) and herbivory scale (04) data analyses, we used binary logistic regression and ordinal logistic regression respectively with treatment (mowed /unmowed) as the predictor.
14: P values were reported based on Walds test.
15: To confirm that any preexisting variation in plant traits did not factor into field herbivory assessment, we also ran a t-test on plant height (Supplementary Data).
16: M. sexta mass gain and  L. texana mass gain was analyzed using the KruskalWallis test due to non-normal distribution.
17: A. craccivora population growth was analyzed by examining total aphids found (adults and nymphs) using a Poisson distribution fit model regression due to non-normal count data.
18: Both treatment and replicate were used as predictors and P values were reported from Wald test .
19: For trichomes we ran multiple analyses; total trichomes were analyzed using a 2-sample t-test, and a Two-way Anova was used for estimating whether the trichomes varied due to mowing treatment of leaf surface.
20: Treatment (mowed/unmowed) and side (abaxial/adaxial) were used as factors.
21: Similar to total trichomes, stellate and non-glandular trichome number, and number of spikes on stellate trichomes were also analyzed using 2 sample t-tests.
22: All analyses were carried out using Minitab (Minitab Inc, State College, PA, USA) and plots were made using GraphPad Prism (LA Jolla, California, USA) software.
