0: Industrial hemp is a multiuse crop that has been widely cultivated for the production of fibers and nutrients.
1: Moreover, there is a great deal of interest about the extraction of hemp secondary metabolites, including terpenes, terpenophenolics and flavonoids, which could be at the basis of its health-promoting effects [ 1].
2: The Italian Government promoted industrial hemp cultivation as a strategy to implement environment-friendly crops and to contrast the loss of agricultural lands, a phenomenon that is particularly evident in central Italy, due to an unbalance between industrial- and agricultural-regulating policies.
3: In the Abruzzo region (central Italy), hemp cultivation is the object of renewed interest, which is witnessed by the increased surface dedicated to hemp crops.
4: For these purposes, a huge number of hemp varieties have been selected in the last two decades, characterized by low  9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) content (<0.2%).
5: Hemp cultivation is mainly focused to the production of fibers and seeds, whereas the aerial parts, floral buds and leaves, are considered as waste or by-products [ 1, 2].
6: During the last years, however, inflorescences are becoming innovative and high-quality by-products of the whole hemp chain, employed for preparations of tonic beverages (tea infusion) or as flavorings and nutraceuticals in certified food and supplements, respectively [ 3].
7: This is also suggested by recent in vitro studies highlighting the capability of both hemp water extract and essential oil (EO) as promising antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-proliferative and antimicrobial agents [ 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9].
8: Anyway, the antimicrobial spectrum appeared to be wider for the EO, particularly against pathogenic bacterial strains.
9: The composition and antimicrobial activity of the EO of three hemp cultivars, namely  Carmagnola selezionata,  Fibranova and  Futura 75, were investigated [ 7] and the last variety showed the highest EO yield and antimicrobial activity.
10: This could be related, at least partially, to the presence of terpene compounds, such as -pinene, myrcene, trans--ocimene, -terpinolene,  E-caryophyllene and -humulene.
11: The EO of Futura 75 was also described as a promising insecticide against larvae of  Spodoptera littoralis and  Culex quinquefasciatus as well as against adults of  Musca domestica [ 2], whereas the good tolerability demonstrated in a pilot clinical study [ 10], further suggested the use of industrial hemp EOs as a novel insecticide with low ecological impact on the environment [ 11].
12: Despite there being several studies highlighting hemp antimicrobial activity in vitro, literature data are still lacking about the hemp antiprotozoal efficacy in in vivo paradigm.
13: Therefore, the present study aims to unravel this concern through the evaluation of the efficacy of hemp EO of three different cultivars,  Futura 75,  Carmagnola selezionata and  Eletta campana, in adult male BALB/c mice intraperitoneally infected with  Leishmania tropica [ 12].
14: The present cultivars were selected according to their consolidated crop production, in the Abruzzo region.
15: The qualitative phytochemical fingerprint, including color analysis, terpene fraction, scavenging/reducing and metal-chelating properties, was investigated, as well.
16: Additionally, a bioinformatics analysis, including network pharmacology and virtual screening, was conducted to predict the mechanism of action underlying the observed bio-pharmacological effects.
