0: Little is known about the pharmacological activity of   Monarda fistulosa L. essential oils.
1: To address this issue, we isolated essential oils from the flowers and leaves of   M. fistulosa and analyzed their chemical composition.
2: We also analyzed the pharmacological effects of   M. fistulosa essential oils on transient receptor potential (TRP) channel activity, as these channels are known targets of various essential oil constituents.
3: Flower (MEO  Fl) and leaf (MEO  Lv) essential oils were comprised mainly of monoterpenes (43.1% and 21.1%) and oxygenated monoterpenes (54.8% and 77.7%), respectively, with a high abundance of monoterpene hydrocarbons, including   p-cymene, -terpinene, -terpinene, and -thujene.
4: Major oxygenated monoterpenes of MEO  Fl and MEO  Lv included carvacrol and thymol.
5: Both MEO  Fl and MEO  Lv stimulated a transient increase in intracellular free Ca  2+ concentration ([Ca  2+]  i) in TRPA1 but not in TRPV1 or TRPV4-transfected cells, with MEO  Lv being much more effective than MEO  Fl.
6: Furthermore, the pure monoterpenes carvacrol, thymol, and -myrcene activated TRPA1 but not the TRPV1 or TRPV4 channels, suggesting that these compounds represented the TRPA1-activating components of   M. fistulosa essential oils.
7: The transient increase in [Ca  2+]  i induced by MEO  Fl/MEO  Lv, carvacrol, -myrcene, and thymol in TRPA1-transfected cells was blocked by a selective TRPA1 antagonist, HC-030031.
8: Although carvacrol and thymol have been reported previously to activate the TRPA1 channels, this is the first report to show that -myrcene is also a TRPA1 channel agonist.
9: Finally, molecular modeling studies showed a substantial similarity between the docking poses of carvacrol, thymol, and -myrcene in the binding site of human TRPA1.
10: Thus, our results provide a cellular and molecular basis to explain at least part of the therapeutic properties of these essential oils, laying the foundation for prospective pharmacological studies involving TRP ion channels.
