0: BACKGROUND(-)-Fenchone is a bicyclic monoterpene present in essential oils of plant species, such as    Foeniculum vulgare and    Peumus boldus, used to treatment of gastrointestinal diseases.
1: Pharmacological studies report its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antinociceptive activity.
2: AIMTo investigate antidiarrheal activity related to gastrointestinal motility, intestinal secretion and antimicrobial activity.METHODSA castor oil-induced diarrhea model was used to evaluate antidiarrheal activity.
3: Intestinal transit and gastric emptying protocols were used to assess a possible antimotility effect.
4: Muscarinic receptors, presynaptic    2-adrenergic and tissue adrenergic receptors, K   ATP channels, nitric oxide were investigated to uncover antimotility mechanisms of action and castor oil-induced enteropooling to elucidate antisecretory mechanisms.
5: The antimicrobial activity was evaluated in the minimum inhibitory concentration model, the fractional inhibitory concentration index using the (-)-fenchone association method with standard antifungal agents.
6: RESULTS(-)-Fenchone (75, 150 and 300 mg/kg) showed antidiarrheal activity, with a significant decrease in the evacuation index.
7: This activity is possibly related to a percentage of reduced intestinal transit (75, 150 and 300 mg/kg).
8: The antimotility effect of (-)-fenchone decreased in the presence of pilocarpine, yohimbine, propranolol, L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester or glibenclamide.
9: In the enteropooling model, no reduction in intestinal fluid weight was observed.
10: (-)- Fenchone did not show antibacterial activity; on the other hand, inhibits the growth of strains of fungi with a minimum fungicide concentration of 32 g/mL.
11: However, when it was associated with amphotericin B, no synergism was observed.CONCLUSIONThe antidiarrheal effect of (-)-fenchone in this study involves antimotility effect and not involve antisecretory mechanisms.
12: (-)-Fenchone presents antifungal activity; however, it did not show antibacterial activity.
