0: Infectious diseases constitute a problem of great importance for animal and human health, as well as the increasing bacterial resistance to antibiotics.
1: In this context, medicinal plants emerge as an effective alternative to replace the use antibiotics.
2: The essential oil (EO) of   Minthostachys verticillata (Griseb.)
3: Epling (Lamiaceae) has demonstrated a strong antimicrobial activity.
4: However, its instability and hydrophobicity under normal storage conditions are limitations to its use.
5: Nanoemulsion technology is an excellent way to solubilize, microencapsulate, and protect this compound.
6: This study aimed to obtain a nanoemulsion based on   M. verticillata EO and evaluate its antibacterial activity against   Staphylococcus aureus.
7: The EO was obtained by steam distillation.
8: Identification and quantification of their components were determined by GC-MS revealing that the dominated chemical group was oxygenated monoterpenes.
9: Nanoemulsions (NE) were characterized by measuring pH, transmittance, separation percentage, release profile, and morphology.
10: The effect of NE on the growth of   S. aureus and cyto-compatibility was also evaluated.
11: The results showed that NE containing a higher percentage of tween 20 exhibited higher stability with an approximated droplet size of 10 nm.
12: The effect of encapsulation process was evaluated by GC-MS revealing that the volatile components in EO were no affected.
13: After 24 h, 74.24  0.75% of EO was released from NE and the antibacterial activity of EO was enhanced considerably by its encapsulation.
14: The incubation of   S. aureus with the NE and pure EO, show a bacterial growth inhibition of 58.87%  0.99 and 46.72%  3.32 (p< 0.05), respectively.
15: In addition, nanoemulsion did not cause toxicity to porcine and equine red blood cells.
16: The results obtained showed that NE could be a potential vehicle for   M. verticillata EO with promissory properties to emerge as a tool for developing advanced therapies to control and combat infections.
