0: The emergence of previously unknown viruses and the re-emergence of known ones are a huge challenge to both the human and veterinary health sectors as the outbreaks they cause remain hard to predict and difficult to combat.
1: Though an integrated One Health approach, which combines human, animal, and environmental health, could contribute in controlling arboviral diseases and in curbing their emergence and spread, these efforts are presently hampered by a lack of knowledge on the functional environmental linkages that can serve as a proxy to predicting arbovirus emergence.
2: Moreover, certain aspects of the biology and ecology of arboviral vectors remain poorly understood, especially in the case of mosquitoes; chief amongst the less appreciated aspects of their biology is the role of plants in the feeding and survival of female members of the population.
3: Though both male and female mosquitoes repeatedly ingest sugars available in plants to sustain daily metabolic activities, thus ensuring survival and flight [ 6, 7], evidence increasingly suggests that female mosquitoes also depend on certain plants in the environment for different aspects of their bionomics.
4: This may be for (i) enhancing their reproductive success [ 8, 9], (ii) use as microhabitats [ 10], (iii) use for the proliferation of larvae [ 11, 12], and (iv) for blocking transmission of pathogens [ 13].
5: These aspects of mosquito biology would potentially be affected by changes in the vegetation structure and composition.
6: Strong differences of mosquito abundance [ 14, 15] and survival [ 8, 9, 16] have been observed between habitats colonized by nectar-rich and nectar-poor plants.
7: Whether invasive alien plants (IAPs) might affect the risk of emergence of malaria was recently reviewed by Stone et al.
8: [ 7], but little is known on possible linkages between IAPs and life-history traits of arboviral vectors, in particular of mosquito vectors.
9: Lately some IAPs are reported to affect the health of humans and livestock, thus adding to their already considerable economic and environmental effects [ 17, 18, 19].
