0: The lack of animal protein in the human diet is one of the most characteristics of developing countries.
1: This protein deficiency, particularly, affects children.
2: In Republic of Benin, fishing has an important role in national socio-economic balance and contributes about 3% to gross domestic product (GDP) [ 1].
3: However, conservation of fish is became difficult due to the lack of adequate conservation system, and climatic and environmental conditions are favorable to its rapid degradation [ 2].
4: Among these fish species is  Galeoides decadactylus, is a very nutritious fish, mainly marine and commonly used for the production of fermented fish in Benin [ 3].
5: To reduce these post-capture losses, several artisanal treatments are carried out.
6: Among these, the fermentation of fish is nowadays one of the most conservation methods used.
7: During the production, producers get losses of products because of unpleasant practices and uncontrolled phenomena [ 4].
8: Moreover, fermentation is an important method of processing and preserving, as it generally improves nutritional characteristics of fermented products.
9: It is therefore associated with salting or drying, with the aim of reducing water activity and delaying or preventing the rapid proliferation of proteolytic and putrefactive bacteria [ 2].
10: In Benin the technique used to produce fermented fish is fermentation with salting and drying, and the product obtained is known as Lanhouin [ 5].
11: It is widely used in southern Benin as flavor enhancers [ 2].
12: However, despite the very nutritious nature of these dried and salted fermented fish, several problems related to their hygienic quality as well as their suitability for conservation still remain [ 6].
13: According to CECAF (Fishery Committee for the Eastern Central Atlantic), over than one hundred species of fish lived in marine waters under Benin jurisdiction and fish biomass was estimated at over than 9660 tons of pelagic fish and about 6000 tons of demersal fish [ 3].
14: Among demersal fish species are the Lesser African Threadfin ( Galeoides decadactylus).
15: Its post-harvest losses are very important because of the very soft nature of its fleshes.
16: Various treatments are performed to reduce these losses.
17: The fermentation and drying to produce the lanhouin is one of the control strategies of loss reduction currently used in Benin [ 4].
18: However, a lot of problems on the microbiological quality of this fermented fish was reported [ 3].
