0: Microencapsulation is a process in which small particles or droplets of a core material are coated or embedded into a homogeneous or heterogeneous matrix to create small capsules.
1: Microcapsules are extremely small (11000 m) and can have numerous morphologies.
2: Food microcapsules, in particular, are small particles containing an active food additive (core) surrounded by a coating or shell.
3: The shell material can comprise a variety of food grade polymers, carbohydrates, fats, and waxes that function as a barrier between the bioactives and the surrounding environment.
4: Encapsulation of flavors, lipids, and carotenoids among other ingredients had recently attracted much attention by food industry [ 10].
5: l-Menthol, for example, has been encapsulated in a carrier mixture of maltodextrin and gum Arabic.
6: Flavors such as oregano, citronella, and marjoram have been encapsulated using skimmed milk powder and whey protein concentrate [ 11].
7: Flavor-loaded microcapsules can release the active material at a perfect time to produce the maximum effect for the consumer.
8: Microencapsulated fish oil (an oil rich in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids) powder with hidden taste and prolonged shelf life has been successfully manufactured and introduced into numerous food products.
9: Lycopene, a molecule believed to decrease the risk of prostate cancer, has been successfully microencapsulated using a carrier consisting of gelatin and sucrose [ 12].
10: Another use of microencapsulation is to reduce degradation of carotenoids in foods, thereby preventing decreased product quality in nutritional properties and coloration [ 11].
11: Specific applications of microencapsulation are [ 13]: baby foods, baked products, chewing gum, flavored waters, leavening agents, nutrition bars, and yogurt.
12: Taste-masked microcapsules containing caffeine for food and sports nutrition industries have been produced for gels or chews to avoid typical unpleasant taste [ 14].
13: Microencapsulation has also been used to improve water spreading and bioavailability of hydrophobic materials, such as coenzyme Q10 or carotenoids [ 15, 16].
