0: The female reproductive cycle involves a very complex sequence of changes in the uterus, ovaries, breasts, and regulatory hormone levels.
1: Several mechanisms, metabolic pathways, and enzymes are involved in controlling and regulating reproductive hormone levels in the blood.
2: During the reproductive cycle, these endogenous hormones are responsible for preparing for implantation and for milk production [ 1, 2].
3: Out of concern of adversely affecting the unborn child, some pregnant women prefer to use herbs, herbal preparations, or oils rather than conventional medication to treat pregnancy-related symptoms (morning sickness, nausea, vomiting, heartburn, etc.)
4: [ 3, 4].
5: Indeed, several plants can improve the female reproductive function and some are beneficial during pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum [ 5, 6].
6: Similarly, essential oils (EOs) are generally safe, and many oils have a generally recognized as safe (GRAS) status.
7: However, the use of herbs and EOs during pregnancy is a highly controversial matter.
8: It is worth mentioning that it is the individual composition of an EO and the possible hazardousness of a single or a group of constituents that determine their medical and therapeutic usage.
9: Some EO-containing plant species are highly variable and may produce several EO chemotypes with different EO compositions of which one or some chemotypes possess potential maternal reproductive toxicity.
10: Causing abortion is a major concern.
11: It is generally believed that EOs extracted from emmenagogic plants are dangerous or unsafe in pregnancy, as they might cause menstrual bleeding and lead to miscarriage.
12: Yet, that is not always true.
13: The oils do not necessarily carry the same activity as the whole plant.
14: Regardless of their ability to promote menstruation, there is no decisive evidence that these oils are abortifacient in aromatherapy amounts.
15: For instance, the whole plants of savin, pennyroyal, tansy, and rue can induce miscarriage and their oils were on the list of abortifacient oils at some point [ 7].
16: Thus far, these oils showed no activity on uterine muscle of isolated human uterus [ 8] and did not cause fetal death [ 9, 10].
17: Still, these facts do not prove the safety of these oils.
18: Since the toxicity of many plants and EOs has not been studied yet, the concern cannot be completely dismissed.
