0: During the growth of microorganisms, some secondary metabolites biologically active are produced to make their lives better.
1: Using chemical and biological methods, Elshafie et al.
2: displayed that the cell-free culture filtrate of  Burkholderia gladioli pv.
3: agaricicola (Bga) Yabuuchi has a promising antibacterial activity against the two microorganisms B. megaterium and  E. coli [ 1].
4: Camele et al.
5: reported that the tested isolate of an endophytic bacterium  Bacillus mojavensis showed antagonistic bacterial and fungal activities against several strains as well as biofilm formation ability [ 2].
6: Endophytes refer to the microorganisms that exist in various organs, tissues or intercellular space of plants, while the host plants generally do not show any symptoms of infection.
7: Generally speaking, endophytes include endophytic fungi, endophytic bacterium and endophytic actinomycetes [ 3].
8: As a very important microbial resource, endophytes exist widely in nature.
9: It is ubiquitous in various terrestrial and aquatic plants.
10: Endophytes have been isolated from bryophytes, ferns, pteridophytes, hornworts, herbaceous plants and various woody plants.
11: The region also ranges from tropical to arctic, from natural wild to agricultural industry ecosystem [ 4].
12: They have unique physiological and metabolic mechanisms, which enable them to adapt to the special environment inside plants, and at the same time, they can encode a variety of bioactive substances.
13: In addition, endophytes coevolved with the host plants for a long time to produce some metabolic substances similar or identical to the host plants with medicinal value [ 5].
14: Some endophytes can even assist the host of medicinal plants to synthesize effective active compounds, the ground-breaking discovery provides a new method to produce the effective compounds which have similar effects with natural medicines isolated from plant tissues directly.
15: At the same time, it has solved the problem of resource shortage and ecological destruction caused by slow growth of some natural plants and large amount of artificial exploitation [ 3].
16: The more beneficial thing is that some of them are environmentally friendly.
17: Elshafie et al.
18: have studied the fungus  Trichoderma harzianum strain T22 (Th-T22) and indicated that Th-T22 showed significant mycoremediation ability in diesel-contaminated sand, suggesting that it can be used as a bioremediation agent for diesel spills in polluted sites [ 6].
19: Among the common endophytes, the endophytic fungi are most often isolated [ 4].
20: The first endophytic fungus was isolated from Perennial ryegrass ( Loliumtum eletum) seeds by Vogle in 1898 [ 7].
21: Up to now, the study on endophytic fungi has a long history of more than 100 years, but the research on endophytic fungi of medicinal plants has not been formally carried out until the last 30 years, which has gradually attracted the attention of domestic and foreign scholars.
